---
id: 1176
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 114.8
program_title: "JWST Medium-Deep Fields -- Windhorst IDS GTO Program"
type: ""
---
# 1176 - JWST Medium-Deep Fields -- Windhorst IDS GTO Program
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1176
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :---- | :----------------- | :------------- |
| 211   | NIRCam Imaging     | (9) MACSJ0416.1-2403 |
| 212   | NIRCam Imaging     | (9) MACSJ0416.1-2403 |
| 213   | NIRCam Imaging     | (9) MACSJ0416.1-2403 |
| 221   | NIRCam Imaging     | (10) ACO-2744 |
| 231   | NIRCam Imaging     | (11) MACSJ1149+2223 |
| 241   | NIRCam Imaging     | (12) EL-GORDO |
| 251   | NIRCam Imaging     | (13) PLCK-G165.7+67.0 |
| 261   | NIRCam Imaging     | (14) GAMA-100033 |
| 271   | NIRCam Imaging     | (15) CLG-J1212+2733 |
| 281   | NIRCam Imaging     | (25) PLCK-G191.24+62.04 |
| 131   | NIRCam Imaging     | (16) WFC3-ERS-FIELD |
| 311   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (22) NDWFS-1425+3254-CENTRE |
| 321   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (24) SDSS-J0005-0006-CENTRE |
| 421   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (24) SDSS-J0005-0006-CENTRE |
| 341   | NIRCam Imaging     | (5) VV-191 |
| 361   | NIRCam Imaging     | (17) TN-J1338-1942 |

## ABSTRACT

We will use ~62.0 hours of JWST IDS GTO time to observe a number of medium-deep fields to study the epoch of galaxy assembly, AGN growth and First Light in detail. This includes a combination of blank deep fields, best lensing clusters, and high-redshift Lyman-alpha galaxies, quasars, and radio galaxies. For details, see the attached PDF.

The observations of the NEP fields (the JWST North Ecliptic Pole Time-Domain Field and the IRAC Dark Field), originally part of this program and of GTO 1255, are now combined in a new program GTO 2738 (Co-PIs Windhorst and Hammel), and the associated time allocation was removed from the present program.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

**WINDHORST IDS --- JWST GTO PROJECT TITLE:**
The Webb Medium-Deep Fields: Galaxy Assembly, Supermassive Blackhole Growth, First Light and Reionization Studies

**WINDHORST IDS --- JWST GTO SCIENCE SUMMARY:**
Following our original JWST IDS proposal approved in 2002, we will use our allocated 110 hours of GTO time for a survey of Webb Medium-Deep Fields in JWST Cycle 1. Our ``WMDF" survey will image ~22 NIRCam fields in up to 8 filters to AB < 28.5-29 mag, totaling 220 arcmin^2 or 0.060 deg^2, or an area equivalent to ~44 HUDF/XDFs. In several of our NIRCam fields, coordinated NIRISS grism and imaging parallels will cover our previous NIRCam images, and/or UV-optical--near-IR images that are available from HST WFC3+ACS. The coordinated parallels will be used for both object characterization and redshifts, and to expand the area and time-baseline of time-domain studies.

Our WMDF will image at least 13 independent lines-of-sight with NIRCam all over the sky, and is therefore much more robust against cosmic variance at AB < 28 mag than JWST programs that image only a few primary areas. The proposed coordinated parallel observations play a critical part in obtaining imaging and grism data that is as homogeneous as possible, over as large an area as possible, and in the least amount of time that is actually feasible with JWST.

Several of our WMDF fields will have a time-domain component on time-scales of hours to a year. We will use the WMDFs to study galaxy assembly and AGN growth over cosmic time. This includes galaxies and early AGN in the epoch of reionization at z > 6, including dust-obscured star-formation and AGN that may be hidden at visible wavelengths.

The WMDF time-domain component will allow us to find and study objects with high parallax in our solar system, Galactic brown dwarfs with high proper motion and/or atmospheric variability, variable weak AGN, high redshift supernovae, and time-varying objects seen behind lensing clusters, including possible cluster caustic transits.

Specifically, as in our original 2002 proposal, and our 2014, 2016, and 2018 resubmissions, our targets are a combination of high ecliptic latitude blank fields, some well known high redshift galaxies with AGN, including high redshift Lyman-alpha galaxies, protoclusters, quasars, and radio galaxies. To better study the First Light epoch, in light of developments with HST WFC3 over the past decade, the WMDF will also image several well-studied and also newly selected rich galaxy clusters that boost the signal of very faint z > 8 objects via their strong gravitational lensing effects. As a benchmark for the study of high redshift dusty environments, we will also study a nearby overlapping galaxy pair.

To encourage immediate use of JWST data by the community and follow-up proposals by both JWST ERS and Cycle 1 GO proposers, we will make the first epoch of our JWST NEP Time-Domain Field (TDF) public immediately (# 111 in the PDF Tables). The other 3 JWST epochs will be released together with the v1 data products as soon as we have these. Also public rightaway will be 36 primary and 36 parallel Cycle 25 HST orbits in the WFC3/UVIS F275W and ACS/WFC B435+V606 filters, 600 ksec of NuSTAR 3-24 keV images, 900 ksec of Chandra ACIS 0.2-10 keV images, 31 hrs of JCMT/SCUBA-2 plus 40 hrs of SMA data at 0.85 mm and 30 hrs of IRAM/Nika2 images at 1-2 mm, as well as 70 hrs of VLA 3 GHz A+B-array images, 147 hrs of VLBA 4.5 GHz data at m.a.s. resolution to sub-microJy levels, and 75 hrs of LOFAR 150 MHz images including LOFAR VLBI. The presence of a 239 mJy quasar at z=1.4429 in the JWST NEP TDF that is unresolved at m.a.s. VLBI resolution will provide high resolution VLA/VLBA and LOFAR/VLBI images of very high dynamic range. Our data release will also include multi-epoch LBT/LBC + Subaru/HSC Ugriz images to AB < 26.0-26.5 mag, multi-epoch GTC/HiPERCAM ugriz images to AB < 27 mag, MMT/MMIRS images to YJHK< 24-23 mag, plus JPAS 56-narrow band spectrophotometry plus MMT/Binospec and MMIRS spectra to 24-22 mag, to provide astrometric, photometric and spectroscopic calibration, respectively, of the first JWST NIRCam observations.

Here follow the relevant notes to our Observation Table submitted to STScI on June 19, 2019 and again on March 18, 2020:

(1) We will image with NIRCam in the standard 8 broad-band filter set, except for the shallowest targets, where we dropped some filters (which GOs can therefore propose to obtain in Cycle 1). For the NEP Time-Domain Field (TDF), we require coordinated parallel observations with NIRISS/WFSS (F150C and F150R grisms) for both object characterization and redshifts, and time-domain studies (direct images in F200W). Details and the scientific justification of the necessary coordinated parallels (CPARs) are given in Appendix A of the attached PDF. All coordinated parallels as schedulable with APT 2020.2 in Cycle 1 are indicated in the PDF Tables in parentheses.

(2) Where possible, we implemented coordinated parallel NIRISS imaging to overlap as much as possible with existing HST imaging. This is critical for our main science goal of finding high redshifts objects in the Medium-Deep Fields, and for our time-domain science, as explained in Appendix A. For the deeper as well as the shallower fields, coordinated parallel imaging is done in the 4 central NIRISS broad-band filters (F150W, F200W, F277W, F356W) to find high redshift objects with the JWST-unique filters. The F150W filter overlaps with previous HST WFC3/IR F160W images for additional time-domain science.

(3) All times listed in the PDF Tables are: (Net exposure times) / (Total charged calendar time) as reported by APT 2020.2 as of March 18, 2020. All times were calculated by APT 2020.2 in units of seconds. Only the total sum of 109.94 hr is given in hours. Details are given in the attached aptx file. We refer the reader to our submitted aptx file or PDF tables for the actual observations and their intended layout on the sky. Now the APT overheads have converged as of March, 2020, the APT should be accurate as of the submission date of March 18, 2020.

(4) We needed to drop one target in early 2020 to match our 110.0 hr allocation (the z=7.51 Lya galaxy, which GOs can therefore also propose to observe). No further changes in our GTO observing plan are anticipated. If the JWST overheads changes further before or after launch, STScI will incorporate such changes, which at this point are expected to minor. Hence, our science plan and our targets to be observed in the PDF Tables are final as of March, 2020. The listed coordinated parallels remain essential to the science goals of our WMDF project, and cannot be sacrificed, even if the overheads change somewhat from what we obtained with APT 2020.2 in the PDF Tables as of March 18, 2020.

(5) According to the JWST ETC, typical 5-sigma sensitivities obtained for point sources from our shallowest (~2 hr) to our deepest (< 6 hr) mosaics are <28.0-28.5 mag to <28.5-29.0 mag per target, respectively. Each of the two AB-magnitude ranges here indicate the typical depth variation from the less sensitive, reddest (3-5 micron) filters to the most sensitive, bluer (0.9-3 micron) NIRCam and NIRISS filters. Some variations in these sensitivity values will occur from field-to-field, depending on exactly how much time can be fit into the final APTs for each field within our total GTO allocation, and on the exact on-orbit Zodical and rogue-path and straylight contributions in each particular WMDF field.

(6) The only aspects in our aptx file that may change at this point are the initial ORIENTS and observation dates of targets that have a number of observations for time-domain purposes, and these will depend on the actual JWST launch date and the completion of its orbital verification period. Our list of targets and instrument modes and spectral elements per targets will not charge.

Further details can be obtained from the aptx and PDF files submitted to STScI on March 18, 2020.