---
id: 1177
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging and LRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "Thomas Greene"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 75.7
program_title: "MIRI Observations of Transiting Exoplanets"
type: ""
---
# 1177 - MIRI Observations of Transiting Exoplanets
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1177
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                      | Observing Template               | Science Target   |
| :------------------------- | :------------------------------- | :--------------- |
| WASP-80b TRANS             | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) WASP-80      |
| WASP-80b EMIS              | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) WASP-80      |
| WASP-69 b EMIS             | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) WASP-69      |
| GJ 436b EMIS               | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) GJ-436       |
| GJ 436b EMIS               | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) GJ-436       |
| HAT-P-26 b TRANS           | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) HAT-P-26B    |
| TRAPPIST-1 b Sec Ecl ipse  | MIRI Imaging                     | (5) TRAPPIST-1B  |
| TRAPPIST-1 b Sec Ecl ipse  | MIRI Imaging                     | (5) TRAPPIST-1B  |
| TRAPPIST-1 b Sec Ecl ipse  | MIRI Imaging                     | (5) TRAPPIST-1B  |
| TRAPPIST-1 b Sec Ecl ipse  | MIRI Imaging                     | (5) TRAPPIST-1B  |
| TRAPPIST-1 b Sec Ecl ipse  | MIRI Imaging                     | (5) TRAPPIST-1B  |

---

## ABSTRACT

We will observe the 5 - 15 micron spectra or photometry of a set of transiting planets that are less massive and cooler than ones spectrally characterized so far with HST and Spitzer. These planets fall mostly in the temperature range 400 – 1000 K with 1 – 200 Earth mass. We seek to obtain transmission and emission spectra (both for at least one planet) to probe a wide range of atmospheric pressures (altitudes) and surface regions. Simulations of these spectra and information retrievals show that we can measure mixing ratios of dominant molecular species, measure metallicities, determine pressure-temperature profiles, and perhaps detect new species not seen before in exoplanet atmospheres. We plan to observe four ice or gas giant planet spectra with the MIRI LRS and make 5 secondary eclipse observations of TRAPPIST-1 b using the MIRI imager in the F1500W filter. These 11 MIRI observations are conducted under T. Greene's GTO program and correspond to Observation IDs GREENE_0001-11 in the summary observation specification spreadsheet submitted in March 2017 with one change: HAT-P-19 b has been replaced with WASP-69 b. The TRAPPIST-1 observations and spectroscopic observations of WASP-107b are being done in collaboration with the European MIRI GTO team (Wright PI). The other observations are being done in collaboration with NIRCam GTO team (M. Rieke PI). We will use state-of-the-art modeling and retrieval framework to derive physical and chemical properties from the combined NIRCam and MIRI exoplanet spectra.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This file contains the specifications of the MIRI component of our transiting planet spectroscopy and imaging photometry program.

Time-series observations will be taken using either the MIRI LRS in slitless mode (targets WASP-80 b, HAT-P-19 b, GJ 436 b, and HAT-P-26 b) or with the MIRI imager (TRAPPIST-1 b). Each science observation consists of a single exposure. We do not allow parallel observations (in line with other JWST time-series modes). We require precise target acquisition for all observations, a standard component of all other JWST time-series observations.

These observations have 2 types of timing constraints:
1. Precise timing starts phased with observing either transits or secondary eclipses as desired. We specify a +/- 30 minute start window, and the dwell time of each exposure is 0.75 hr + MAX(2 hr, T14) + T14 + 1 hr. The first 0.75 hr is for detector settling, and the 1 hr at the end is for the exposure timing window.
2. PA constraints to avoid spectral contamination from nearby bright stars.