---
id: 1178
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "Karl Gordon"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 15.8
program_title: "Ram Pressure Stripping in ESO 137-001"
type: ""
---
# 1178 - Ram Pressure Stripping in ESO 137-001
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1178
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                      | Observing Template                     | Science Target             |
| :------------------------- | :------------------------------------- | :------------------------- |
| Inner Tail [MRS+Imaging]   | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (18) Group INNER-TAIL      |
| Inner Tail 2 [MRS+Imaging]| MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (22) Group INNER-TAIL-2    |
| Inner Tail 3 [MRS+Imaging]| MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (23) Group INNER-TAIL-3    |
| Outer Tail [MRS+Imaging]  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (21) Group OUTER-TAIL      |
| Background                 | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (10) BACKGROUND            |

---

## ABSTRACT

Once thought to be rare, the number of known ram pressure stripping (RPS) events has been steadily rising, observed as truncated or disturbed gaseous disks or one-sided tails in the X-ray through the radio. These events hold key information regarding the relation between galaxy transformation and environment. We propose MIRI MRS observations of ESO 137-001, a well studied local galaxy (z=0.01625) with a spectacular double ram pressure stripped tail. At both high spectral (R~2700) and spatial (~0.1 arcsec) resolution over 5-28.8m, we will detect multiple transitions of rotational H2 lines as well as a suite of fine structure lines at high significance. From these observables, we will deduce the kinematics and the temperature/density structure of warm and hot gas components in the tail on sub-kpc scales as well as the excitation mechanism(s) responsible. This information will reveal how the (star forming) interstellar medium of the host galaxy responds to strong RPS and how the stripped gas subsequently interactions with the intra-cluster medium. Notably, the detailed state of H2 will identify the spatial extent of shocked gas and constrain the mechanisms and timescales for the cooling of molecular gas, revealing whether star-forming regions in the tail were formed in situ or from molecular gas stripped directly from the galactic disk. Additionally, high resolution MIRI 7.7m imaging obtained simultaneously with MRS pointings in the far-tail (~40 kpc from the main galaxy) will fall back on the main galaxy and near- to mid-tail regions, providing a measure of the aromatic features and a SFR indicator.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This program targets multiple regions at the galaxy-tail interface and along the stripped tail of ESO 137-001 with the MIRI MRS. The full MRS wavelength range with all channels will be observed. The 16 science targets have been grouped into three inner tail region target groups (14 targets in target group INNER-TAIL, INNER-TAIL-2, and INNER-TAIL-3) and an outer tail region target group (2 targets plus a background). Our science goal is to detect and characterize warm molecular hydrogen emission and fine structure lines in key regions, selected HII regions with evidence for star formation and/or cold molecular gas, at the galaxy-tail interface and along the RPS tail. Our primary objective is the H2 S(1) emission line at 17.035um (rest). As this line is in the MRS channel 3 at z=0.01625, our pointings and dither strategy are optimized for this channel. Secondary objectives include the H2 S(2)-S(7) lines, fine structure lines such as [NeII]-[NeVI], [SIII], [OIV], [FeII], etc. and PAH features. The H2 S(0) emission line, which falls at the low sensitivity edge of channel 4 long, will be recovered if possible using spatial and spectral binning.

One dedicated background pointing, with the same exposure setup as our science pointings, is included in the target group OUTER-TAIL for calibration purposes in order to ensure proper subtraction of the sky/telescope background. This background pointing must be taken during the same epoch as our observations and therefore we request that the program be executed within a 2 day period in a restricted PA range.

MIRI imaging, taken simultaneously with MRS mosaic in the outer tail, will provide a F770W image of the galaxy ESO 137-001 and its RPS tail out to a distance of ~25 kpc. This imaging requires a position angle of ~328-342 deg (V3). Since this imaging can improve spatial registration of the MRS exposures, we include it in the inner tail region as well at a minimum increase to program duration.

Given that our targets are extended, the absolute pointing accuracy of JWST is adequate for our needs and target acquisition is not required for this program.