---
id: 1179
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "Jarron Leisenring"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 19.8
program_title: "YSO Imaging"
type: ""
---
# 1179 - YSO Imaging
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1179
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                       | Observing Template                 | Science Target       |
| :-------------------------- | :--------------------------------- | :------------------- |
| SAO-206462-R1_SUB160        | NIRCam Imaging                     | (1) SAO-206462       |
| SAO-206462-R2_SUB160        | NIRCam Imaging                     | (1) SAO-206462       |
| TW-HYA-R1_M335R             | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging     | (2) TW-HYA           |
| TW-HYA-R2_M335R             | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging     | (2) TW-HYA           |
| MWC-758-R1_SUB160           | NIRCam Imaging                     | (3) MWC-758          |
| MWC-758-R2_SUB160           | NIRCam Imaging                     | (3) MWC-758          |
| HL-TAU-R1_SUB160            | NIRCam Imaging                     | (4) HL-TAU           |
| HL-TAU-R2_SUB160            | NIRCam Imaging                     | (4) HL-TAU           |
| PDS-70 R1 SUB160            | NIRCam Imaging                     | (5) PDS-70           |
| PDS-70-R2 SUB160            | NIRCam Imaging                     | (5) PDS-70           |

---

## ABSTRACT

A complex myriad of physical processes contribute to the planet formation, likely including collisional growth of solids, particle aggregation in pressure bumps, non-linear solid growth, rapid gas accretion onto critical cores, and subsequent orbital migration. While a tremendous amount of information has been gathered over the past 30 years concerning the structure and evolution of circumstellar disks, practically no empirical constraints exist on the dominant physical processes at play in gas giant planet formation. The best way to test predictive theories is to observe planets in formation, and characterize them in terms of i) temperature, luminosity, orbital location, possibly accretion rates, ii) nature of any attendant circumplanetary disks, and iii) local physical conditions of the circumstellar disk.

We propose to search for and characterize forming protoplanets in the outer orbital regions of circumstellar disks around five carefully chosen young stellar objects: a) two with strong evidence for protoplanets based on previous observations and theoretical modelling of symmetric two arm spiral features (SAO 206462 and MWC 758); b) two with observed multiple rings of emission in both thermal emission and scattered light (TW Hya and HL Tau); c) one with two known sources with accretion signatures (PDS 70). While our main goal is the detection of forming protoplanets as compact objects, we will also be sensitive to extended thermal emission.

The Near-Infrared Camera (NIRCam) onboard the James Webb Space Telescope (JWST) will provide images of the surrounding circumstellar regions, searching for companions at unmatched sensitivities of Saturn masses in the outer regions of the disk. Simultaneous observations of the NIRCam's Short-Wave (SW) and Long-Wave (LW) channels will allow us to characterize any discovered objects. Coupled with recent advances in planet formation theory along with observational constraints from ground-based high contrast imaging, JWST presents the best opportunity to search for and characterize embedded protoplanets while constraining the physical conditions of the disks.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will observe NIRCam sub-array images (direct imaging) of SAO 206462, TW Hya, MWC 758, HL Tau, and PDS 70. Given the anticipated IR excess within the LW NIRCam bands, there were no suitable PSF reference stars available that would allow sufficient color matching for optimal subtraction. Instead, each source will be observed in two rolls positions with an offset of ~10 degrees. Due to the narrow core of the direct imaging PSF, self-subtraction effects are minimized past 0.5". To increase efficiency of the program, MWC 758 and HL Tau observations have been linked as non-interruptible.

We will use NIRCam in direct imaging mode, searching for potential protoplanets and extended thermal emission in F410M. Detailed simulations have shown that direct imaging observations can detect objects ~2 magnitudes fainter than similar coronagraphic observations assuming the same amount of allocated time. The shortwave filter F200W will be used to determine colors and provide clues as to whether any detected candidates are actual planets in formation, extended disk features, or background stars. Complementary images in a narrow-band hydrogen filters, F187N (Pa-alpha) and F405N (Br-alpha) will allow us to search for line emission features, which could be indicative of accretion onto the protoplanets.

We have chosen the medium band filter, as opposed to F444W to avoid full saturation of the PSF while maximizing emission from potential exoplanets. In addition, observations are mostly acquired in SUB160P for the more favorable frame times. However, this small subarray limits the effective FoV, ranging anywhere between 1.5" to 8", depending on the wavelength channel and source position. Because the majority of the sources are beyond 100pc, the physical scales we are interested in probing will still fit within the observed window.

Given the brightness of these sources, we expect to partially the saturate the core of the PSF in all bands. While latents are a concern, they have been shown to be relatively well-behaved in the NIRCam flight detectors. In addition, the relatively short integration times and relatively long dither times prevent significant latent emission from building up and sticking around to harass subsequent integrations and exposures.

Update: For TW Hya, we have switched to use coronagraphic mode in order to search for planets in the face-on disk. ALMA observations suggest the formation of orbital gaps at locations that are far exterior to the corongraphs' inner working angle. The use of mask and Lyot stop attenuation will suppress the stellar flux and remove concerns from saturation that lead to charge migration that complicate the data analysis.