---
id: 1181
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging  NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "Daniel Eisenstein"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 151.5
program_title: "NIRCam-NIRSpec Galaxy Assembly Survey - GOODS-N"
type: ""
---
# 1181 - NIRCam-NIRSpec Galaxy Assembly Survey - GOODS-N
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1181
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                                   | Observing Template                  | Science Target                     |
| :-------------------------------------- | :---------------------------------- | :--------------------------------- |
| NIRCam+MIRI Medium F1                   | NIRCam Imaging                      | (1) GOODS-N-MEDIUM01               |
| NIRCam+MIRI Medium F2                   | NIRCam Imaging                      | (6) GOODS-N-MEDIUM02               |
| NIRCam+MIRI Medium F3                   | NIRCam Imaging                      | (7) GOODS-N-MEDIUM03               |
| Medium/HST F7                           | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy    | (8) 1181-MERGED-APT-CLEAN-CLEAN    |
| Medium/HST F4                           | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy    | (8) 1181-MERGED-APT-CLEAN-CLEAN    |
| Medium/HST F5                           | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy    | (8) 1181-MERGED-APT-CLEAN-CLEAN    |
| Medium/HST F6                           | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy    | (8) 1181-MERGED-APT-CLEAN-CLEAN    |
| Medium/JWST F1                          | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy    | (9) 21_3_23_mediumjwst_trim_ta5    |
| Medium/JWST F1 - W OPR repeat of skipped obs 08 | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy    | (10) 21_3_23_mediumjwst_trim_ta5_v2 |
| Medium/JWST F1 - W OPR repeat of shorts in obs 98 | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy    | (10) 21_3_23_mediumjwst_trim_ta5_v2 |
| Medium/JWST F2                          | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy    | (9) 21_3_23_mediumjwst_trim_ta5    |
| Medium/JWST F3                          | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy    | (9) 21_3_23_mediumjwst_trim_ta5    |
| Medium/JWST F4                          | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy    | (9) 21_3_23_mediumjwst_trim_ta5    |

---

## ABSTRACT

We will conduct an ambitious deep-field survey to study the formation and evolution of galaxies from z 12 to z 2. Our program combines NIRSpec, NIRCam, and MIRI data, alongside the deepest data from HST, Chandra, ALMA, and JVLA, to produce an unprecedented view of high-redshift galaxies. The program is a collaboration of the NIRSpec and NIRCam GTO teams, and it combines imaging and spectroscopy as well as full use of coordinated parallel observations to get the best out of all three instruments. Indeed, to pursue a detailed understanding of galaxy evolution, the combination of imaging and spectroscopy is critical. By bringing these data sets together on a single field, we will carry out systematic investigations far beyond the sum of the parts. This survey will provide the rest-frame optical data of sufficient area, depth, and spectral resolutions to map galaxy population properties, including the joint distribution of stellar mass, luminosity, star formation rate, stellar ages, sizes, metallicity, nuclear activity, gas kinematics, and outflows, over a wide range of redshifts. Broadly speaking, spectroscopy (at R = 100, 1000, and 2700) provides precise and robust redshifts, measurement of the stellar continuum, and emission lines to z 10 and beyond. The emission lines allow us to diagnose the galaxies' star formation rate (SFR), metallicities, chemical abundances, the ISM dust-reddening, and the ISM excitation, including signatures of AGNs. Low-resolution spectroscopy (R=100) for the brighter objects can also diagnose the stellar populations (especially the stellar age distribution). High-resolution spectroscopy (R=2700) can diagnose internal galaxy kinematics and outflows. The multi-wavelength NIRCam imaging will allow the detection, selection and characterization of galaxies to z = 15 and perhaps beyond. It will determine colors, morphological structure, and color gradients, while supplying photometric redshifts, stellar mass, and star formation rate estimates along with measures of equivalent widths of the strongest emission lines. The depth reached is unparalleled and will lead to luminosity functions to substantially higher redshift and lower mass than can be done with HST. Deep MIRI imaging will enable a rest-frame infrared view of subset of our sample, testing the assumptions of our UV/optical modeling and revealing heavily obscured stellar populations and nuclear activity. Combination with external data from Chandra, JVLA, and ALMA will further explore nuclear activity and dusty star formation. We expect that this carefully constructed survey will provide a primary legacy dataset for many years to come. Warning: The pointing positions in this APT file are not yet final as the mosaic positions depend upon the field orientation which in turn depends on the as yet undetermined date of observation. Additionally, the NIRSpec MOS target catalog(s) included in this APT file are a placeholder for the actual catalogs that will be revised depending upon the final pointing positions and, in some cases, the analysis of NIRCam pre-imaging. An explanation of these issues and full field NIRSpec MOS target catalogs are available at https://issues.cosmos.esa.int/jwst-nirspecwiki/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=3473486

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This APT file contains two sets of observations:

The first set (observations 1,2,3,4,5,6,7) performs a NIRCam "pre-imaging" mosaic in the GOODS-N field using NIRCam as primary with MIRI as the parallel instrument (observation 1) and NIRSpec as primary with NIRCam as parallel (observations 2,3,4,5,6,7), but with the NIRSpec positions chosen such that NIRCam images are contiguous.

The second set (observations 8,9,10,11) are NIRSpec MSA follow-up of this NIRCam mosaic, also with NIRCam parallel observations.

There is a scheduling constraint that the MSA follow-up comes >60 days after the NIRCam pre-imaging.

**NIRCam+MIRI Medium** (observation 1)
NIRCam GTO team observations of GOODS-N with MIRI in parallel.

**Medium/HST** (observations 2,3,4,5,6,7)
NIRCam GTO team observations of GOODS-N with NIRSpec in parallel.

**Medium/JWST** (observations 8,9,10,11)
NIRSpec GTO team observations of GOODS-N with NIRCam border in parallel