---
id: 1184
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Coronagraphic Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "Joshua Schlieder"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 32.7
program_title: "A NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging Survey of Nearby Young M Stars"
type: ""
---
# 1184 - A NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging Survey of Nearby Young M Stars
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1184
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
## 1. List of Labels, Observing Templates, and Science Targets

| Folder                     | Label                     | Observing Template                | Science Target          |
| :------------------------- | :------------------------ | :-------------------------------- | :---------------------- |
| Young M Dwarf Sequence 1   | AU Mic roll 1             | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging      | (1) V-AU-MIC            |
| Young M Dwarf Sequence 1   | AU Mic roll 2             | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging      | (1) V-AU-MIC            |
| Young M Dwarf Sequence 1   | HIP17695 roll 1           | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging      | (2) HIP17695            |
| Young M Dwarf Sequence 1   | HIP17695 roll 2           | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging      | (2) HIP17695            |
| Young M Dwarf Sequence 1   | G 7-34 roll 1             | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging      | (3) G-7-34              |
| Young M Dwarf Sequence 1   | G 7-34 roll 2             | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging      | (3) G-7-34              |
| Young M Dwarf Sequence 1   | TYC5899 roll 1            | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging      | (4) TYC5899             |
| Young M Dwarf Sequence 1   | TYC5899 roll 2            | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging      | (4) TYC5899             |
| Young M Dwarf Sequence 1   | TYC5899 roll 1            | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging      | (4) TYC5899             |
| Young M Dwarf Sequence 1   | TYC5899 roll 2            | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging      | (4) TYC5899             |
| Young M Dwarf Sequence 2   | Fomalhaut C roll 1        | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging      | (6) FOMALHAUT-C         |
| Young M Dwarf Sequence 2   | Fomalhaut C roll 2        | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging      | (6) FOMALHAUT-C         |
| Young M Dwarf Sequence 2   | AP Col roll 1             | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging      | (7) V-AP-COL            |
| Young M Dwarf Sequence 2   | AP Col roll 2             | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging      | (7) V-AP-COL            |
| Young M Dwarf Sequence 2   | 2MJ0944 roll 1            | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging      | (5) 2MJ0944             |
| Young M Dwarf Sequence 2   | 2MJ0944 roll 2            | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging      | (5) 2MJ0944             |
| Young M Dwarf Sequence 3   | LP 944-20 roll 1          | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging      | (8) LP-944-20           |
| Young M Dwarf Sequence 3   | LP 944-20 roll 2          | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging      | (8) LP-944-20           |
| Young M Dwarf Sequence 3   | 2MJ0443 roll 1            | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging      | (9) 2MJ0443             |
| Young M Dwarf Sequence 3   | 2MJ0443 roll 2            | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging      | (9) 2MJ0443             |

---

## ABSTRACT

The population of giant planets on wide orbits around low-mass M dwarf stars is poorly understood. Current ground based imaging struggles to probe below 1 Jupiter mass at large separations. However, in the vicinity of the closest youngest M dwarfs, the unprecedented sensitivity of NIRCam coronagraphic imaging on the JWST provides direct access to lower-mass gas-giants beyond 10 AU. Contrast estimates indicate that 3-5 micron imaging is sensitive to sub-Jupiter mass planets and pushes into the ice-giant mass regime around the most favorable targets. We have designed a NIRCam GTO program to perform deep, dual-band coronagraphic imaging on a sample of the closest youngest M dwarfs. Our program will use the round M335R coronagraph with both the F444W and F356W filters and include telescope rolls for PSF subtraction. The dual-band imaging approach allows for color-based rejection of stellar and galactic background contaminants. Such observations will provide deep observational limits on the presence of sub-Jupiter mass planets in the outskirts of these stellar systems, provide constraints on the peak of the planet surface density distribution, and probe the separation of the primordial CO ice line, the hypothesized venue for ice-giant formation.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The population of giant planets on wide orbits orbiting low-mass M dwarf stars ( 0.6 MSun, Teff 3900 K) is poorly understood. Radial velocity and microlensing surveys provide population constraints and occurrence rate estimates within 10 AU, but current ground based imaging struggles to probe below 1 Jupiter mass at larger separations. In the vicinity of these intrinsically faint stars, where the contrast requirements are less severe, estimates reveal that JWST NIRCam 3-5 m coronagraphic imaging greatly outperforms current ground based capabilities and peaks for young M dwarfs within ~25 pc. Using contrast curves that predict ~10^-5 contrast at 1" separations, NIRCam imaging is sensitive to Saturn mass planets and can push into the ice-giant mass regime (Neptune mass) around the most favorable targets.

Thus, NIRCam coronagraphic imaging can probe a new planet parameter space around M dwarfs, reaching significantly lower-mass planets at >10 AU. An attractive NIRCam program is to perform deep, dual band imaging on a sample of the closest youngest M dwarfs. Following survey simulations and individual contrast estimates, we selected 9 high priority targets from a compiled list of all known M type dwarfs younger than 500 Myr within 100 pc. Observations of these targets will provide deep limits on the presence of sub-Jupiter mass planets in the outskirts of these stellar systems. Scientific goals of these observations include placing constraints on the peak in the planet surface density distribution, providing deep direct imaging constraints on the microlensing event population, and probing the separation of the primordial CO ice line, the hypothesized venue for ice-giant formation. Our small survey will use the M335R coronagraph with both the F444W and F356W filters. We plan to integrate for a total of 1 hr in F444W and 30 min in F356W spread over 2 roll angles separated by ~10 deg. This observing strategy allows for color-based rejection of background contaminants and roll/PSF subtraction.

We also plan to use the ensemble of target stars to construct PSF references during image post processing. This option saves telescope time by avoiding observations of separate PSF reference stars for each target and provides a resource to the community by beginning to build a low-mass star PSF library for future use early in the JWST mission. To achieve this, we have organized our program into observation blocks where stars of similar spectral type are observed sequentially to preserve space craft and PSF stability. Our detector setting choices (readout pattern, groups, integrations) have also been selected to optimize a self-referenced survey.