---
id: 1185
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/GTS  NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "Thomas Greene"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 155.9
program_title: "Transit Spectroscopy of Mature Planets"
type: ""
---
# 1185 - Transit Spectroscopy of Mature Planets
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1185
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                  | Observing Template              | Science Target      |
| :--------------------- | :------------------------------ | :------------------ |
| F444W Sec Eclipse      | NIRCam Grism Time Series        | HD 189733 b         |
| F322W2 Transit         | NIRCam Grism Time Series        | WASP-80 b           |
| F444W Transit          | NIRCam Grism Time Series        | WASP-80 b           |
| F444W Transit          | NIRCam Grism Time Series        | WASP-80 b           |
| F322W2 Sec Eclipse     | NIRCam Grism Time Series        | WASP-80 b           |
| F444W Sec Eclipse      | NIRCam Grism Time Series        | WASP-80 b           |
| F322W2 Sec Eclipse     | NIRCam Grism Time Series        | WASP-69 b           |
| F444W Sec Eclipse      | NIRCam Grism Time Series        | WASP-69 b           |
| F322W2 Transit         | NIRCam Grism Time Series        | WASP-107 b          |
| F444W Transit          | NIRCam Grism Time Series        | WASP-107 b          |
| F322W2 Sec Eclipse     | NIRCam Grism Time Series        | GJ 436 b            |
| F444W Sec Eclipse      | NIRCam Grism Time Series        | GJ 436 b            |
| F322W2 Sec Eclipse     | NIRCam Grism Time Series        | GJ 436 b            |
| F444W Sec Eclipse      | NIRCam Grism Time Series        | GJ 436 b            |
| F322W2 Sec Eclipse     | NIRCam Grism Time Series        | GJ 436 b            |
| F444W Sec Eclipse      | NIRCam Grism Time Series        | GJ 436 b            |
| F322W2 Transit         | NIRCam Grism Time Series        | GJ 3470 b           |
| F444W Transit          | NIRCam Grism Time Series        | GJ 3470 b           |
| G395H transit          | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | GJ 1214 b           |
| G395H transit          | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | GJ 1214 b           |

---

## ABSTRACT

We will observe the 2.4 – 5 micron spectra of a set of transiting planets that are less massive and cooler than ones spectrally characterized so far with HST and Spitzer. These planets fall mostly in the temperature range 700 – 1000 K with 20 – 200 Earth mass. We seek to obtain transmission and emission spectra (both for one planet) to probe a wide range of atmospheric pressures (altitudes) and surface regions. Simulations of these spectra and information retrievals show that we can measure mixing ratios of dominant molecular species, measure metallicities, determine pressure-temperature profiles, and perhaps detect new species not seen before in exoplanet atmospheres. These 19 NIRCam 2.4 – 5 micron grism observations are similar to our previous submissions with the exception of HAT-P-19b being exchanged for WASP-69 b (same type planet, brighter star), dropping NIRCam observations of HAT-P-26 b (minimize duplication with Telescope Team NIRSpec), and adding NIRCam observations of GJ 3470 b abd GJ 1214 b. We will also conduct additional 5 – 11+ micron MIRI LRS observations of most of these planets in T. Greene's GTO program. We will use state-of-the-art modeling and retrieval framework to derive physical and chemical properties from the combined NIRCam and MIRI exoplanet spectra.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This file contains the specifications of the NIRCam component of our transiting planet spectroscopy program. Time-series observations will be taken using the NIRCam Module A long wavelength R grism used in series with either the F322W2 filter or the F444W filter using the standard NIRCam grism time-series template. Simultaneous short-wave imaging observations are taken simultaneously in all cases, and no other parallel observations are allowed (standard for the template). These observations have 2 types of timing constraints: 1. Precise timing starts phased with observing either transits or secondary eclipses as desired (window is now 1.01 hr) 2. PA constraints to avoid spectral contamination from nearby bright stars I also specified V3 PA=0 to 359.9 deg for some otherwise unconstrained observations in order to achieve better visibilities (better guide star access) We require precise target acquisition for all observations, a standard component of the NIRCam grism time series template we are using. Two target stars (HD 189733 and GJ 436) are too bright to be currently acquired with the NIRCam F335M filter without saturation. We will use offset acquisition for a star cloe to and comoving with HD 189733. GJ 436 is observable with a narrow-band (N) long-wave filter without saturation in at least 3 RAPID groups. We trust that STScI will enable N filter target acquisition by the start of Cycle 1 (it is on NIRCam's "to do" list). We have chosen integration parameters to achieve about 50% full-well (science and target acquisition). These are our targets, modes, phases, and visits for our 17 observations. The Module A R grism is used in all cases: