---
id: 1186
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 19.4
program_title: "Protostar (YSO) Spectroscopy"
type: ""
---
# 1186 - Protostar (YSO) Spectroscopy
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1186
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label       | Observing Template     | Science Target  |
| :---------- | :--------------------- | :-------------- |
| Ser S68N    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (4) SER-S68N    |
| Ser S68N    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (4) SER-S68N    |
| Ser SMM 3   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (5) SER-SMM-3   |
| Ser SMM 3   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (5) SER-SMM-3   |

---

## ABSTRACT

We will use the NIRSpec IFU to search for absorption and emission features in the K-band spectra of Class 0 protostars. These are the youngest stars and have yet to accrete the majority of their masses. NIRSpec IFU spectra should show photospheric absorption features that constrain the effective temperatures and surface gravities of accreting Class 0 protostars. We will use absorption line data to assess effective temperatures and judge whether the lines form in the photospheres of protostar or disk atmospheres (via surface gravities). We will also assess the likely origin and excitation mechanism of any H2, H Br gamma, or other emission lines and use their strengths to estimate the presence of jets, UV, X-rays, and accretion. This information will inform theories of how the accretion rates of protostars evolve over time, how quickly they assemble their masses, what high energy processes are at work, and how they generate their luminosities. These NIRSpec IFU observations correspond to Observation IDs MRIEKE_2500-2504 in the summary observation specification spreadsheet submitted in March 2017. We are collaborating with MIRI team members E. van Dishoeck and M. Ressler who will observe some of these targets with the MIRI MRS.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

All observations will be made with the NIRSpec IFU with the G235H, G235M (for H2 lines in gap), and G395M gratings. These are slightly extended (up to ~1") embedded protostar sources, and 2 - 6 small (0.2") cycling dithers will be performed for each. Backgrounds will be taken from within the target pointings themselves. A single MSA leak calibration exposure will be made for the G235H observations of each target. The NRSIRS2RAPID readout mode is used to maximize S/N of each spectral observation. Integration times are limited to <~1000s to reduce the impact of cosmic rays. JWST blind pointing of ~0.1" RMS per axis is sufficient for these observations. Here is a summary of the observations:

| OBS# | TARGET    | GRATING | DITHERS |
| :--- | :-------- | :------ | :------ |
| 1    | SER-S68N  | G235H   | 6       |
|      |           | G395H   | 6       |
| 2    | SER-S68N  | G253M   | 2       |
| 3    | SER-SMM-3 | G235H   | 4       |
|      |           | G395H   | 4       |
| 4    | SER-SMM-3 | G235M   | 2       |