---
id: 1188
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging and LRS  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "Klaus Hodapp"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 22.7
program_title: "Spectroscopy of Young, Widely Separated Exoplanets"
type: ""
---
# 1188 - Spectroscopy of Young, Widely Separated Exoplanets
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1188
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                  | Observing Template             | Science Target                |
| :--------------------- | :----------------------------- | :---------------------------- |
| HR8799-bc-Alt-PA1      | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy       | (1) HD-218396                 |
| HR8799-bc-Alt-PA2      | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy       | (1) HD-218396                 |
| HR8799-ced-Alt-PA1     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy       | (1) HD-218396                 |
| HR8799-ced-Alt-PA2     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy       | (1) HD-218396                 |
| HR8799-ced-Alt-PA2     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy       | (1) HD-218396                 |
| 2M2236-b-PA1           | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy       | (2) UCAC4-690-119045-B        |
| 2M2236-b-PA2           | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy       | (2) UCAC4-690-119045-B        |
| 2MASSJ2236 LRS         | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (6) 2MASS-J2236+4751-B-MIRI   |
| GU-Psc-b               | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy       | (3) GU-PSC-B                  |
| GU-PSCb LRS            | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) GU-PSC-B                  |
| GU-Psc-B Imaging       | MIRI Imaging                   | (3) GU-PSC-B                  |

---

## ABSTRACT

We will obtain NIRSpec IFU R=1000 spectra of a sample of exoplanets that are spatially sufficiently separated from their primary star to allow direct imaging spectroscopy. The sample will comprise exoplanets of different masses and ages, most of which have already been studied spectroscopically in the 1.0 - 2.5 m range. NIRSpec will allow to extend the measurements into the 3 – 5 m range with a substantial sensitivity advantage over competing ground-based systems.

The main goal is understanding the spectra of self-luminous, fairly young exoplanets below the deuterium burning limit throughout their contraction and cooling. Can metallicity or isotopic composition be determined and do those give clues about the formation mechanism?

We will observe the following exoplanets:
HR 8799 b, c, d, and e (if possible)
2MJ2236 b
GU Psc b
HD 106906 b, as part of Program 1277

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Revised version 2021 03 15
We have changed the detector operation mode,
have eliminated the leakcal exposures,
have added one additional position angle for HR8799,
have updated positions, proper motions etc. with Gaia astrometry, where possible
have added WATA acquisition observations, where useful,
and have eliminated the PSF reference observation on UPS-Peg, since this star
would saturate the detector.

Revised Version 2021 06 08
We changed the grating for all spectroscopic observations to the higher resolution G395H.
The higher resolution was chosen to allow newly developed methods for spectral modeling
to work better.

Revision 20210609
For HR8799, we have changed the detector readout to 2 groups, 3 or 4 integrations, 20 dither positions,
to reduce the number of saturating pixels.

Revision 20230706
For HR8799, we have made minor (< 500 mas) adjustments to the IFU pointing relative to the star HR 8799,
to better position the planets within the IFU.
The new coordinates are based yet unpublished VLT/GRAVITY interferometry and are more
precise than previously available coordinates.

Revision 20230928:
We created a new target (#8) for the TA star for J2236b.
Coordinates for 2MASS-J2236+4751-B-MIRI were updated. This is the science target!
Offset was eliminated.
Filter for TA was changed to avoid saturation.

Revision 20240508:
Based on the experience with the first set of HR8799 observations obtained in 2023,
we have made the following changes:
- position the host star directly into the IFU, since this does not cause excessive stray light
- all four planets will be in the IFU at the same time
- we now use 4 groups per integration instead of 2
- and we have reduced the number of dithers to stay within the allocated observing time

**OBSERVING DESCRIPTION**
For those exoplanets that are close enough to their host star so that the sensitivity is limited by the contrast with the host star PSF,
we have selected specific position angles (PA) that avoid the diffraction spikes of the host star and still allow some PA variation (roll maneuver)
to do ADI subtraction. These specific PAs lead to narrow observing windows.

The current version of the APT allows a range of PAs to be defined, but is does not allow to give sets of alternative PA and offset values.
It would help with the scheduling of JWST if this capability would be available.