---
id: 1189
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 36
program_title: "NIRCam Y-Dwarfs"
type: ""
---
# 1189 - NIRCam Y-Dwarfs
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1189
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                                   | Observing Template                     | Science Target             |
| :-------------------------------------- | :------------------------------------- | :------------------------- |
| NIRSpec Fixed slit                      | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy        | (1) J03480772-6022270      |
| MIRI LRS                                | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy       | (1) J03480772-6022270      |
| NIRSpec Prism - Time Series             | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy        | (1) J03480772-6022270      |
| NIRSpec IFU                             | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy               | (2) J045853.89+643452.9    |
| MIRI Imaging                            | MIRI Imaging                           | (2) J045853.89+643452.9    |
| MIRI MRS (For MIRI Team)                | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (2) J045853.89+643452.9    |
| NIRCam Imaging                          | NIRCam Imaging                         | (5) J182831.08+265037.7    |
| NIRCams NIRSPEC Fixed slit              | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy        | (5) J182831.08+265037.7    |
| MIRI MRS (For MIRI Team)                | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (5) J182831.08+265037.7    |
| W1828 - NIRISS AMI (For NIRISS Team)    | NIRISS Aperture Masking Interferometry | (5) J182831.08+265037.7    |
| HD19467- NIRCam - Roll m5 - LWBar       | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging           | (6) HD-19467               |
| HD19467- NIRCam - Roll m5 - 335R        | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging           | (6) HD-19467               |
| hd 19467 - NIRCam - Roll m5 - LB        | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging           | (6) HD-19467               |
| hd 19467 - NIRCam - Roll m5 - 335R      | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging           | (6) HD-19467               |
| Ref star - NIRCam - Roll p5 - LB        | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging           | (7) HD-19096               |
| Ref star - NIRCam - Roll p5 - 335R      | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging           | (7) HD-19096               |
| NIRSpec Fixed Slit                     | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy        | (8) UGPS0722-05            |
| MIRI LRS                                | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy       | (8) UGPS0722-05            |

## ABSTRACT

The nature of the coolest brown dwarfs - their formation, their atmospheres, including their composition, temperature, pressure structures, and the nature of any clouds that may be present is of particular interest for a number of reasons. Since they form where the Initial Mass Function is rolling off they provide important information about the star formation process. The fact that they appear to have different binarity fractions compared to higher mass stars also indicates that their formation process is different. Objects with masses in the range 5-10 MJup represent evolutionary end-state analogues for the exoplanets found in a younger, higher-temperature state orbiting nearby stars. Anchoring the model atmospheres for low mass objects will increase our understanding of these objects and perhaps lead to predictions of observable differences (e.g. metallicity) between objects formed via cloud fragmentation (low mass end of star formation) vs. those formed via accretion within a protoplanetary disk.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This submission is a part of a coordinated program that uses all the JWST instruments to observe a selection of cool brown dwarfs. Other science instrument teams are contributing some of their GTO time and agreements are in place to share the data accordingly.
This program as submitted is under the time allocation given in the spreadsheet: "APT_organize_NIRCam STScI.xlsx".
Explanations for errors and warnings:
- GTO submission to be approved by STScI after submission
- PDF attachment not required for this submission
From NIRISS CO-I:
NIRISS error: 1 AMI requires the use of a calibrator star. I have none defined - red flag - but it is all right. I will not need a PSF calibrator for my low expected contrast.
From the NIRISS technical evaluator at the STScI: The red cross AMI error for the target W1828 (Observtion 17) can be ignored (e-mail 11/15/17).
12/20/17. Disallowed G140M/070LP observation of J0458 has been switched back to the G140M/F100LP that was included in the April 2017 submission.
1/30/18 Updated list of co-Is to match agreements with other GTO instrument teams.
3/8/21 As suggested by Chritine Chen and Mario Gennaro, changed Obs 12 from 1 group with 3 integrations to 3 groups with 1 integration to reduce the impact of cosmic rays
9/17/21 Revisions:
- Changed all NIRSpec IFU observations, except for J0458, to fixed slit observations to avoid potenital issues with MSA leakage. Three dither positons along slit. Number of groups adjusted so that there was no change in the total exposure time, therefore the S/N should not have changed.
Kept the IFU observations for J0458 since it is a close binary and we can see both targets in the IFU.
- Are still keeping the observations for each target linked in a non-interruptable squence. This is imortant for these obejects, since they vary due to their rotation and their "weather", so in order to properly interpret the data from the different exposures they must be obtained in close temporal proximity.
- Changed MIRI Groups to eliminate the errors seen in the latest verision of APT per instructions from D. Barrado.
- All warnings have been investigted and are acceptable as is.
- None of these changes have caused an increase of the execution time for this APT plan.
7/10/22 Revisions:
- No changes to charged time for each object
- After reviewing the STScI concerns, the NIRISS team does not want to make any changes using their instrument
- After reviewing the STScI concerns, the MIRI team does not want to make any changes using their instrument
- Minor change in filters for NIRCam imaging observations of J1828: Switching the previous F150M / F360M combination to a F090W / F360M combination.
- Changing the NIRSpec fixed slit filter/grating configurations for J1828
- from G235M/F170LP to G395H/F290LP, and
- from G395M/290LP to Prism/Clear
- Detector readout configurations and integration times remain unchanged
- Updated the position data for ALL the targets based on updated astrometry measurements. These objects all have high proper motions and this information needs to be updated since the program was originally submitted.
7/22/22 Revisions:
- Added SGD for Obs 14 reference star. Integrations were evenly split between dither positions. This change was made due to concerns from NIRCam commissioning team that source positioning on coronagraphic masks is not yet optimal this early in science operations, resulting in 60-70 mas of vertical offset from the LWBAR mask. Adding small grid dithers will help mitigate PSF subtraction residuals through post-processing.
- Total time increased from 27.47 hrs to 27.75 hrs.
team figures out how to handle the issues with the MRS observing mode. No change to charged observing time. Charged time with this latest version of APT actually dropped from 28.14 hours to 27.10 hours.
6/13/23 Revisions:
The observations of HD 19467 in program PID 1189 will be re-scheduled due to a guiding failure that prevented acquisition of the reference star observations. Despite the failure to acquire the reference star, our team was able to extract the brown dwarf companion signal and publish a science paper on this system (Greenbaum et al 2023, https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2023ApJ...945..126G/abstract). This dataset provided a nice early exercise of NIRCam coronagraphy, both the use of the bar coronagraph and the ability to use wavefront information from the frequent Observatory wavefront updates.
Thus, we request that the re-scheduled observations be modified to use the new simultaneous SW/LW observations with the bar coronagraph (The addition of short wave filters is actually required in the latest version of the APT program). There are potentially significant advantages to using the short wavelength images in improving the sensitivity of the longer wavelength channel. Detections in the shorter wavelength channels also overlap more ground-based measurements and would be valuable for comparison. In making this request, we would not change LW filter or detector settings, so the observing time should not change, but we would add SW filters to accompany the long wave settings:
F210M - F250M
F210M - F300M
F210M - F360M
F182M - F410M
F182M - F430M
F182M - F460M
7/7/23 Revisions.:
Upon further review by the STScI staff and the NIRCam SI team experts we have further changed:
- Observations 62, 63, and 64 from a bar coronagraph mask to a 335R mask.
- (-0.01, +0.006) x, y arc-second offsets have been incorporated to better center this mask over the target.
- Changed sequential 62, 63, 64 observations to less constraining group only observations for 62, 63, 64
- Changed PA offsets between obs 62 and 63 from 7 to 14 degrees to 10 to 14 degrees
7/12/23 Revisons:
Updated the dithering procedure for the reference star in Observation 64