---
id: 1190
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "Michael Meyer"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 12.9
program_title: "Embedded Cluster Survey"
type: ""
---
# 1190 - Embedded Cluster Survey
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1190
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                      | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :------------------------- | :----------------- | :------------- |
| embedded cluster imaging 1 | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) NGC-2024   |
| embedded cluster imaging 2 | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) NGC-2024   |
| embedded cluster imaging 3 | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) NGC-2024   |

## ABSTRACT

    We propose to obtain a complete census of planetary mass objects between 2-20 Mjupiter in the embedded young cluster NGC 2024. These data will enable us to: a) constrain the low mass end of the IMF; and b) search for evidence of gas giant planets that may have been ejected in the early dynamical history of the cluster evolution. We will use a multi-filter survey of both broad-band filters (to assess luminosity, extintion, and the presense of circumstellar dust disks) as well as intermediate band filters (to constrain temperature and surface gravity). We expect a sample of 50-100 candidate planetary mass objects for which we will obtain follow-up NIRSPEC characterization spectra. Assessment of C/O ratios based on retrieval analysis of the spectra could reveal planetary mass objects that likely formed in a circumstellar disk rather than the ISM.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

    We will observe one carefully selected embedded young cluster from among nearby star forming regions within 1 kpc to probe the IMF down to the lowest masses where compact objects can collapse from the ISM. Estimates for this range from <3 MJup to > 10 MJup overlapping the range of planetary masses. Observations such as these will place powerful constraints on very low mass end of the IMF putting theories to the test. We will obtain multiband imaging of the cluster NGC 2024 wellmatched to the NIRCam field of view to disentangle intrinsic color, extinction, and the presence (or absence) of circumstellar disks enabling construction of monochromatic luminosity functions corrected for reddening and free (to a large extent) from disk excess in order to estimate stellar mass distributions to < 2 MJup. This program will also identify giant planets ejected through dynamical interactions as well as very low mass brown dwarfs for characterization through followup spectroscopy with NIRSpec (to be done separately from the NIRCam GTO program). Comparing observed C/O ratios based on spectral retrieval applied to the characterization spectra could enable us to distinguish some objects as ejected planets compared to those formed directly from the ISM.

    NGC 2024 will be observed using F070W, F115W, F356W, and F444W to estimate Teff, individual Av, and identify disk emission or not. Intermediateband filters (e.g. F140M, F182M, F360M, and F430M) will be observed to assess temperature and constrain surface gravity. Each filter pair will be observed for two hours.