---
id: 1191
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "John Stansberry"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 29.1
program_title: "Kuiper Belt Science with JWST"
type: ""
---
# 1191 - Kuiper Belt Science with JWST
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1191
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                                   | Observing Template                     | Science Target        |
| :-------------------------------------- | :------------------------------------- | :-------------------- |
| PLUTO MIRI MRS                          | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (1) PLUTO+CHARON      |
| PLUTO NIRSPEC IFU : 0 deg               | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy               | (1) PLUTO+CHARON      |
| PLUTO NIRSPEC IFU : 0 deg (Obs 3 repeat)| NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy               | (1) PLUTO+CHARON      |
| PLUTO NIRSPEC IFU : 120 deg             | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy               | (1) PLUTO+CHARON      |
| PLUTO NIRSPEC IFU : 200 deg             | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy               | (1) PLUTO+CHARON      |
| PLUTO NIRSPEC IFU : 280 deg             | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy               | (1) PLUTO+CHARON      |
| PLUTO NIRSPEC IFU : 280 deg             | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy               | (1) PLUTO+CHARON      |
| 2002TX300 NIRSPEC IFU                   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy               | (6) 2002TX300         |
| 2005RR43 NIRSPEC IFU                    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy               | (7) 2005RR43          |
| 2003OP32 NIRSPEC IFU                    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy               | (8) 2003OP32          |
| 1995SM55 NIRSPEC IFU                    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy               | (9) 1995SM55          |
| 1999KR16 NIRSPEC IFU                    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy               | (10) 1999KR16         |
| 2002AW197 NIRSPEC IFU                   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy               | (11) 2002AW197        |
| 2005UQ513 NIRSPEC IFU                   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy               | (12) 2005UQ513        |
| 2004PT107 NIRSPEC IFU                   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy               | (13) 2004PT107        |
| 2007OR10 NIRSPEC IFU                    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy               | (3) 2007OR10          |
| SALACIA NIRSPEC IFU                     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy               | (4) SALACIA           |
| 2002MS4 NIRSPEC IFU                     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy               | (5) 2002MS4           |
| ERIS MIRI LRS                           | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy       | (2) ERIS              |
| ERIS NIRSPEC IFU                        | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy               | (2) ERIS              |

---

## ABSTRACT

We plan to exploit JWST's exquisite sensitivity in the 1-5 micron region to study the largest trans-Neptunian Objects and Kuiper Belt objects via reflectance spectroscopy. The composition of even the largest of these bodies is poorly constrained. We propose to use NIRSpec's IFU to obtain the first high-SNR, R > 100 spectra for a sample of these objects. MIRI spectra will also be obtained on some targets. These data can be expected to reveal the presence of previously unseen molecular ices, constrain their physical state (crystalline phase, solution with other species, temperature, grain-size), identify new organic species, and constrain isotopic ratios for some elements (H, O, C, N). MIRI MRS data will also be used to study temperature variations on several targets, and will be interpreted in the context of existing Herschel and/or Spitzer thermal data. The targets represent a large fraction of the diversity of the Kuiper Belt in terms of collisional history (Pluto and Haumea underwent catastrophic impacts), effects of planetary migration (resonant, classical, Centaur and scattered objects), multiplicity (several host at least one moon), albedo, and major species composition (H2O, CH4, N2, NH3, CO). These objects represent the end-state of accretion and subsequent processing in the Kuiper Belt. This initial reconnaissance of their surface compositions will inform our understanding of the long history of processes in the outermost regions of the Sun's proto-planetary disk.
This proposal is part of a broader set of guaranteed-time observations to be made under programs 1254, 1272, 1273, 1231 and 1271.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

**PLUTO+CHARON:** NIRSpec IFU observations with the high-resolution gratings are planned for 4 different sub-observer longitudes on Pluto: 0, 120, 200, and 280 degrees. The range for each sub-observer longitude is 20 degrees. Pluto's rotation period is ~6.4 days. These central longitude constraints place a time window for the observations to occur less than 24 hours, but greater than 1 hour, so do not receive a 1-hour overhead. A MIRI MRS observation is grouped with the NIRSpec observation centered at 200 degrees longitude (observation 5), the approximate location of the volatile-rich Sputnik Planitia. The NRSIRS2RAPID readout mode was chosen for the NIRSpec observations to maximize the SNR in a short amount of time. The full MRS range (all 3 grating settings) will be used to obtain observations from 5.6 to 28 microns. Simultaneous imaging of the field near Pluto during the MRS observations are planned with the F560W filter. TA for the Pluto+Charon MRS observations are not required because of the high accuracy of the ephemeris.

**HAUMEA FAMILY:** 2002 TX300, 2005 RR43, 2003 OP32, and 1995 SM55 are currently considered to be members of the Haumea collisional family due to their orbital elements and surface composition. 1999 KR16, 2002 AW197, 2005 UQ513, and 2004 PT107 have similar orbital elements to the Haumea family but lack the same surface compositions from ground-based near-infrared spectra. All 8 of thes objects will be observed with the NIRSpec IFU in PRISM mode to test if surface composition truly is a prerequisite for Haumea family membership.

**LOW ALBEDO KBOS:** 2007 OR10, Salacia, and 2002 MS4 will be observed with the NIRSpec IFU in PRISM mode.

**ERIS:** Due to its brightness, Eris will be observed with the NIRSpec IFU and the medium-resolution gratings across the entire near-infrared wavelength range. No PRISM observations are specified. MIRI LRS observations will be used to obtain short-wavelength mid-infrared spectra of this KBO, and a TA is specified in order to accurately place Eris in the thin LRS slit. The rotation period of Eris is poorly-constrained, so we do not place central longitude constraints on these observations.