---
id: 1192
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging and MRS  NIRCam/Imaging  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "Karl Misselt"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 48
program_title: "Physics and Chemistry of PDR Fronts"
type: ""
---
# 1192 - Physics and Chemistry of PDR Fronts
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1192
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                    | Observing Template                     | Science Target                           |
| :----------------------- | :------------------------------------- | :--------------------------------------- |
| NIRCam Imaging           | NIRCam Imaging                         | (13) NGC-7023-NW-FILAMENT-IMAGING        |
| MIRI Imaging             | MIRI Imaging                           | (13) NGC-7023-NW-FILAMENT-IMAGING        |
| MIRI IFU Filament1       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (11) NGC-7023-NW-FILAMENT                |
| MIRI IFU Background      | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (12) NGG7023-BACKGROUND                  |
| NIRSpec IFU Filament 1   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy               | (11) NGC-7023-NW-FILAMENT                |
| NIRSpec IFU Backgrou nd  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy               | (12) NGG7023-BACKGROUND                  |
| NIRCam Imaging           | NIRCam Imaging                         | (15) HORSEHEAD-FILAMENT-IMAGING          |
| MIRI Imaging             | MIRI Imaging                           | (15) HORSEHEAD-FILAMENT-IMAGING          |
| MIRI IFU Filament1       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (2) HORSEHEAD-FILAMENT                   |
| MIRI IFU Background      | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (14) HORSEHEAD-BACKGROUND                |
| NIRSpec IFU Filament 1   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy               | (2) HORSEHEAD-FILAMENT                   |
| NIRSpec IFU Backgrou nd  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy               | (14) HORSEHEAD-BACKGROUND                |

---

## ABSTRACT

Photodissociation regions (PDRs) are predominantly neutral regions of the ISM in which the heating and chemistry are mainly regulated by far ultraviolet photons. They are extended regions at the interface between bright stars and molecular clouds, and contain dense structures and clumps immersed in a more diffuse medium which are subjected to photo-evaporation, which brings fresh matter into the diffuse hotter zone. The interaction of stellar radiation with in situ material includes: (1) the disruption of grain mantles/clusters formed in shielded dense regions or coagulated grains, (2) ionization and dissociation of the gas and (3) gas and dust heating. Studies of nearby PDRs have shown that these processes are strongly stratified and active on angular scales that can be as small as 1" (0.002 pc/400 au at a distance of 400 pc), indicating that the physical conditions vary dramatically on small spatial-scales in PDRs (variations in gas temperature from 100 1000 K to 10 30 K and in gas density from 102 103 to 104 106 cm3). Nearby PDRs are therefore unique targets to study rapid variations in the dust and gas components as a function of the excitation and physical conditions. We propose to combine imaging and spectroscopy of two emblematic PDRs, the Horsehead and NGC7023, with MIRI, NIRCam and NIRSpec. These two nearby PDRs have different excitation conditions, with simple geometries, and are ideal to take full advantages of the high spatial resolution provided by JWST. NIRCam will be used to map in the F212N (H2 1-0 S(1)) and F335M (PAHs). Other NIRCam filters will be used to map the PDR continuum and extended red emission.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Achieving the science goals of this project requires multiwavelength imaging of matched regions across a very narrow PDR front with high spatial resolution perpendicular to the front.
To accomplish this, we use a large suite of JWST instruments and modes. Our primary observations employ the MIRI and NIRSpec IFUs to cover nearly the full wavelength range of JWST. All four MIRI IFU channels are used along with two NIRSpec grating settings (G395M/F290LP and G235M/F170LP) to provide continuous wavelength coverage between ~1.7 and 28 um at a resolution of ~1000. The IFUs are mosaiced in a narrow strip perpendicular to the PDR front. The mosaics are constucted to be approximately 1x6 IFU FOVs (~3x18 arcsec). Position angle constraints have been used to ensure that the MIRI and NIRSpec IFU strips cover the same spatial region across the front, extending on one side into the HII region and the molecular cloud on the other. To complement the spatially limited maps with the IFUs, we also image both PDRs with MIRI and NIRCam. MIRI imaging utilizes all 9 main MIRI filters while we employ 10 NIRCam filters (5 each in the SW and LW channels). The imaging is configured to cover the region of the PDR front covered in the IFU maps as well as a much larger region of the PDR environment. The NIRCam filters are chosen to cover important PDR lines (e.g. H2 1-0 S(1), Bra alpha) as well "solid state" features (e.g. 3.3um PAH). The MIRI filters cover PAH features and continuum. The large spatial coverage of the imagers will tie the detailed spectral data in the limited IFU mapping region to the larger PDR environment. Position angle constraints have been placed on the NIRCam imaging to ensure that the IFU mapped region fall on a favorable region of an SCA while avoiding bright objects falling on other SCAs). The constraints additionally ensure that the MIRI imaging obtained in parallel for use as backgrounds to the science MIRI imaging fall on sourceless regions and are contemporaneous temporally with the MIRI imaging. IFU observations are linked with off-source background regions; we link them to ensure contemporaneous measurements of zodiacal and telescope backgrounds. NIRCam imaging is combined with MIRI parallel imaging to generate background estimates in selected MIRI filters.