---
id: 1194
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 29.9
program_title: "Characterization of the HR 8799 Planetary System and Planet Search"
type: ""
---
# 1194 - Characterization of the HR 8799 Planetary System and Planet Search
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1194
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                                     | Observing Template             | Science Target               |
| :---------------------------------------- | :----------------------------- | :--------------------------- |
| HR 8799 - NIRCam - Roll 1 - MASK335R      | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging   | (1) HR8799                   |
| HR 8799 bcde - NIRCam - Roll 1 - MASKLW B | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging   | (1) HR8799                   |
| Ref star - NIRCam - MASK335R              | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging   | (2) HD220657                 |
| Ref star - NIRCam - MASKLWB               | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging   | (2) HD220657                 |
| HR 8799 bcde - NIRCam - Roll 2 - MASKLW B | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging   | (1) HR8799                   |
| HR 8799 - NIRCam - Roll 2 - MASK335R      | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging   | (1) HR8799                   |
| HR8799 1065C                              | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging     | (1) HR8799                   |
| HR8799 1140C                              | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging     | (1) HR8799                   |
| HR8799 1550C                              | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging     | (1) HR8799                   |
| 1550C - Target Bkg                        | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging     | (4) HR8799-BACKGROUND        |
| 1140C - Target Bkg                        | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging     | (4) HR8799-BACKGROUND        |
| 1065C - Target Bkg                        | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging     | (4) HR8799-BACKGROUND        |
| REF 1065C                                 | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging     | (3) HD-218261                |
| REF 1140C                                 | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging     | (3) HD-218261                |
| REF 1550C                                 | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging     | (3) HD-218261                |
| 1550C - REF Bkg                           | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging     | (5) HD-218261-BACKGROUND     |
| 1140C - REF Bkg                           | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging     | (5) HD-218261-BACKGROUND     |
| 1065C - REF Bkg                           | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging     | (5) HD-218261-BACKGROUND     |
| REF 2100W                                 | MIRI Imaging                   | (7) HD-218261-NOBGD          |
| HR8799 2100W                              | MIRI Imaging                   | (6) HR8799-NOBGD             |

---

## ABSTRACT

A joint team of NIRCam, European MIRI, and Telescope Team GTO scientists will execute a series of coronagraphic measurements using NIRCam and MIRI. The goals of the program are two-fold.
First, to search for previously unknown planets using NIRCam in the F356W2 and F444W filters with the round 430 mask being used for both filters. This program will achieve a sensitivity to masses less than 1 MJup at F444W and will use F356W to reject background stars and galaxies.
The second goal of the program is the physical characterization of the known planets, HR8789bcde, using NIRCam and MIRI multi-filter photometry. The Telescope Team will exercise an engineering mode of the telescope to aggressively push the Inner Working Angle and detect HR8799e while also measuring the three more widely separated planets. Six medium-band filters will be used in conjunction with the long wavelength bar. The NIRCam observations will use two roll angles (+/-5 deg) and a reference star to assist with suppression of residuals in the coronagraphic image. The MIRI team will observe the system using the three filters of the MIRI 4 Quadrant Phase mask (4QPM) coronagraph.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

**SUMMARY AND OVERALL OBSERVING STRATEGY**
-----------------------------------------
This program will observe HR8799 using two of the NIRCam coronagraphs in eight filters: MASKLWB to image the known planetary companions HR8799bcde with F250M, F300M, F335M, F410M, F430M, and F460M; and MASK430R to image the region HR8799 to look for additional faint companions further from the star in deep F356W2 and F444W observations. We will use the narrow end of the LWB coronagraph to minimize the Inner Working Angle. To achieve the best possible contrast, we will make use of Small Grid Dither technique and KLIP algorithm to build an optimal PSF reference for subtraction from each integration in our observations. We follow the recommended coronagraphic practices of observing the science target in 2 rolls and observing a nearby PSF reference star in an un-interrruptible sequence.

In addition to the intrinsic scientific value of characterizing HR8799, a strong secondary goal of this program is assessing coronagraphic performance and observing strategies for close-in companions. We therefore are using an engineering mode aperture to position the star at the narrow end of the bar coronagraph. (Specifically, the "SIAF Fiducial Point Override" SR to use the NRCA5_MASKLWB_NARROW aperture point.) We recognize this is in some sense an unsupported mode, but are using our joint position as GTO observers and STScI staff scientist to in effect demonstrate and calibrate this new mode, hopefully to allow it to be offered generally in future cycles (in a similar way to how the HST STIS BAR5 position was commissioned.)

**Ordering Of Observations**
------------------------
All observations are grouped by a "Sequence Observations, Non-Interruptible" special requirement (aka "Seq Non-Int SR") to ensure the PSF calibrator is observed close in time to the science target.

Within that we order the observations to maximize efficiency by minimizing slews: We first obtain the observations in both coronagraphs at PA roll 1, then all observations for the PSF star, then all science observations in roll 2. By placing the PSF star in the middle and carefully selecting the order in which the MASK430R and MASKLWB observations are obtained we have tried to reduce the time delta between science observations and the PSF reference while still maintaining good efficiency by not adding more slews.

**Choice of PSF star**
------------------
We searched SIMBAD for stars of equal or greater brightness within 10 degrees of the science target. We also chose to prioritize the W1-W2 color of the PSF star in order to minimize systematics in the deep search component of this program.

Given those criteria our chosen PSF calibrator is *ups Peg (HD 220657), which is an F-type star similar to the target, with a reasonable delta H-K and delta W1-W2. The PSF star is 2 mag brighter than the target which permits a shorter observing while maintaining roughly similar peak pixel intensity compared to the target.

**NOTE ON RESTRICTED FUNCTIONALITY**
---------------------------------
As explained above this program uses the Restricted special requirement "Fiducial Point Override" to place the targets at a different location along the coronagraph bar than is nominal. After discussions with NIRCam support scientists and others here at STScI we believe this should "work as is" using the existing functionality that's already in PPS and other systems. We will gladly work with the PC and others to review things and address any issues that may arise. In particular we will want to carefully review the visit files before execution to double-check positioning of the target stars will be as desired. Thanks much.

**Absolute PA and PA Offset Special Requirements, and Implied Time Constraints**
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
We used the Coronagraphic Target Visibility Tool to plan the PA special requirements.

The scheduling window is fairly narrowly constrained because the inner-most companion is at very small angular separation and in order to make this observation feasible at all we must orient that as close as possible to perpendicular to the MASKLWB occulting bar.

We have set up the program to use that scheduling opportunity. With the selected PA range tolerances the scheduling window is ~10 days wide.

In particular we:
- Set "Same PA as" SRs linking the 2 science observations at each roll angle. This is to ensure consistent positioning of the target in both NIRCam datasets. It also increases observational efficiency slightly by avoiding rolls between those visits.
- Set an absolute "Aperture PA Range" SR to the range 85.1-99.1 deg for Observations 2 and 5, which positions the companion at the farthest separation from the coronagraph.
- Set the "Aperture PA offset" SR between the two observations in each filter to the range -7 to -14 deg, which is near the maximum available roll. The sign - is here because we would prefer to be as close as possible to the maximum possible angle 99.1 deg, which is the angle for which HR8799e is at the farthest separation from the coronagraph.

If for scheduling reasons it proves necessary to loosen constraints, we can work with our PC to adjust the Special Requirements and evaluate tradeoffs in reduced science performance by partially blocking the companion.

**EXPOSURE TIMES**
--------------
Characterization with NIRCam:
SNRs for HR8799b were calculated using the best fit model of this object from the Rajan (2015) paper and the release candidate version of the ETC (as of Nov 2017), since the public version was not working well for coronagraph. We found the following correspondence between exposure time and SNR for the outermost planet.

F460M Texp = 897.99 SNR = 15.13
F430M Texp = 1346.99 SNR = 11.65
F410M Texp = 673.50 SNR = 24.23
F335M Texp = 1346.99 SNR = 25.64
F300M Texp = 1363.03 SNR = 7.64
F250M Texp = 1352.34 SNR = 3.53

The workbook in this version is 11014. We then used the Nov 2017 public version of the ETC to choose the exposure parameters that would prevent saturation (workbook 10865). We found that the readout pattern BRIGHT2 with the NGROUPS adjusted to ensure no saturated pixels, and and chose Nints to match these exposure times.

Because the reference star is two magnitudes brighter than HR8799 we reduced to Ngroup =4 in order to have ~similar photon noise level on speckles (should be Ngroups = 3 but we avoided odd number). We checked that none of the integrations were saturated. Since we have 5 Small Grid Dithers we then chose Nint=24 for each dither to keep the total integration time on the reference star similar to the one on a single roll.

The current version of the ETC does not support Small Grid Dithers simulations. We carried out this work with the pandeia coronagraphy python package. We found that since HR8799 c d e are brighter than HR8799 b, expected SNR is >10 for the longer wavelenths and ~3-4 for the two shorter wavelengths.

Given large uncertainties on coronagraph performances and on the current version of the ETC, we might revisit the exposure parameters at a latter time.

Deep search with NIRCam:
For deep imaging our observing plan is to observe HR8799 at two roll angles in F444W and in F356W to a depth adequate to veto red stars or extragalactic objects (a factor of two lower integration time in F356W than at F444W). The exposure time was chosen to search planets down to Saturn masses at 4" assuming a 10 nm wavefront drift using the extension of COND03 models (Baraffe et al. 2003) for planetary masses down to Saturn mass (Beichman et al. 2010). At this separation, we should be able to detect a 0.3 Mjup planet with a SNR of about 5. We chose the exposure time ratio target/reference star to be sqrt(flux target/flux reference) => 2.75, to obtain the same SNR of the PSF for both targets. We will use the 5-POINT dither pattern to increase the contrast gain at close separation but chose not to increase the SNR of the PSF in order to maximize the time spent on the target. However, we made sure to keep a similar SNR per frame for both targets by carefully chosing the detector readout modes, number of groups and integrations.

Astrometric Confirmation Images
----------------------------
We choose to take these with NGROUPS=4, NINT=1, to get about 60 s integration time. But the ETC doesn't support calculations in this mode so this isn't based on anything rigorous. We may adjust this later.

**TARGET ACQUISITION**
-------------------
ETC calculations (using the release candidate ETC for 1.2 in late Nov 2017) show that for HR 8799, we want a BRIGHT mode TA (using F335M+ND square). For HR 8799, using pattern=SHALLOW2, NGROUPS=65 (TA exp time = 16 s) the ETC predicts SNR∼127 and does not give any warnings of saturation. The PSF star is 2 mag brighter, so we change to pattern=RAPID and NGROUPS=33 for a predicted SNR~130 (exp time = 1.7 s).

**NOTE ON GTO TIME ACCOUNTING**
----------------------------
Observations 1, 3, and 6 (the MASK430R observations) should be charged to the NIRCam GTO team.
Observations 2, 4, and 5 (the MASKLWB observations) should be charged to the Telescope Scientist GTO team.
Observations 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14 (MIRI observations) should be charged to the MIRI-EU GTO team.
The time for slews between observations 2&3, 4&5 and 6&7 should be split evenly between the three teams.