---
id: 1198
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 22.4
program_title: "IFU Spectroscopy of the Host Galaxies of Strongly Lensed Quasars"
type: ""
---
# 1198 - IFU Spectroscopy of the Host Galaxies of Strongly Lensed Quasars
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1198
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :---- | :----------------- | :------------- |
| 4 | NIRCam Imaging | (4) LQAC-308-047-001 |
| 5 | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (4) LQAC-308-047-001 |
| 7 | NIRCam Imaging | (5) HE-0435-1223 |
| 8 | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (5) HE-0435-1223 |
| 12 | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (5) HE-0435-1223 |
| 10 | NIRCam Imaging | (6) HB89-1115+080 |
| 11 | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (6) HB89-1115+080 |

## ABSTRACT

We will study the interaction of the host spheroid and central black hole by obtaining NIRCam images and NIRSpec IFU datacubes on 3 multiply imaged QSOs and on their lens galaxies. The main purpose of these observations is to take advantage of the gravitational stretching of the host galaxy to effectively obtain spatially resolved spectroscopic data at higher rest frame angular resolution than otherwise possible. We will also obtain spatially resolved data on the lens galaxy. The spectroscopic data will allow us to determine abundances, abundance ratios, and kinematical information.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will obtain IFU data at R~1000 for 43multiply imaged QSOs chosen to be at similar redshift (around z~1.7). A fourth target, J1206-4332, a double with a quadruply lensed host galaxy was dropped because of its large apparent size. Our goals are:

1- measure kinematics and emission line strengths of the QSO host as close to the QSO as possible. Lines within the wavelength range include [OII], [OIII], Hbeta and Halpha;

2- if host absorption lines in the Fe-Mgb region are detectable, measure their line strengths and derive stellar kinematical information on the host;

3- measure the spatially resolved stellar kinematics (velocity and velocity dispersion) of the lens galaxy using the Ca triplet lines.

For the velocity dispersion we will use synthetic templates.