---
id: 1199
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging  NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "Massimo Stiavelli"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 32
program_title: "The Metallicity of Galaxies in the MAC J1149.5+2223 Field"
type: ""
---
# 1199 - The Metallicity of Galaxies in the MAC J1149.5+2223 Field
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1199
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                  | Observing Template             | Science Target               |
| :--------------------- | :----------------------------- | :--------------------------- |
| v16-G235M-1            | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (14) v16                     |
| v16-G235M-2            | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (14) v16                     |
| v16-G395M-1            | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (14) v16                     |
| v16-G395M-2            | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (14) v16                     |
| NIRCam Imaging         | NIRCam Imaging                 | (1) MACS-J1149.6+2223        |

## ABSTRACT

The overall goal of this investigation is to study the formation and evolution of early type galaxies and their relation to their star forming progenitors. This is accomplished by obtaining NIRCam imaging data and NIRSpec multiobject MSA spectroscopy of a sample of both early and late type galaxies to determine their metallicity and, when possible, metal abundance ratios and correlate them with other global galaxy properties. The target field will be the Frontier Fields cluster MACS 1149.5+2223, and specifically our primary targets are MACS1149-JD1, a confirmed galaxy at z=9.1, and other star forming/passively evolving galaxies at z>3.
The coordinated parallels for this program, deep NIRCam imaging of partly overlapping the HFF parallel field, will have no exclusive access period.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The technical goals of this program are 1. to cover MACS1149-JD1, a confirmed galaxy at z=9.1, and get very deep spectra over the full range of two NIRSPEC gratings (G235M and G395M; none of wavelength range should fall the detector gap), 2. to cover the parallel field of the Hubble Frontier Fields of this cluster, and 3. to get as many spectra as possible of early and late type galaxies in other MSA shutters.
We use two medium resolution gratings of NIRSPEC: G235M and G395M. This combination allows us to measure rest frame UV to Oiii5007 lines for JD1, and Mg2 5275 and Halpha for galaxies in the redshift range 3 to 6. We will also measure [OII], [OIII], CaHK, Hbeta in the redshift range 3.5 to 9.
We plan to use 4 different MSA configurations, 2 for each grating. For some objects we will use both gratings while for others just one. The decision will be made on the basis of the available photometric redshifts of the objects. Aside from optimization of the number of MSA targets we will also attempt to balance the number of late and early type objects.
We will exploit the benefits of gravitational amplification from the lensing cluster whenever possible. If some slitlets remain without a target we will open them on available galaxies or on empty sky.
[Update: Apr1 2020]: The NIRCAM primary and parallel filters are updated so they will provide sufficient SED sampling both for lyman break galaxies at z>6 and passive galaxies at z>3.
This version has a position angle that should produce partial overlap with the FF HST parallel field. If the coordinated parallels overhead is too high we will drop the PA constraint and go without parallels. The MSA target selection may need to be finalized after launch (as it will require careful astrometric calibration). The Primary NIRCam pointing and the position angle to better overlap the NIRCam parallel could both need some tweaks.
[Update: Dec1 2021]:
The NIRCAM primary and parallel filters are updated following the reviewers comments;
NIRCam parallel imaging (Obs 20,21,22,23):
- By following the reviewer's comments, we updated the readout pattern and group number, from `DEEP2 with 9 groups` to `MEDIUM 8 with 10 groups`. We confirm that those changes improve SNs for all observations (e.g., 6.6% increase in F200W). Those changes did not increase the total exposure time.
NIRCam primary imaging (Obs 5):
- Following the comments, we updated the readout pattern and group number, from `Deep 2 + 6 Groups + 1 integration` to `Medium 8 + 5 Groups + 2 integration`, to achieve comparable depth. This slightly improved SNs (~0.1%).
All changes above resulted in 32.52hr total time, which is less than what was previously allocated, 32.6hr. The total data increased due to the changes above (from 65371.50MB to 96163.89MB) but no warning is raised.
PA constraint in NIRCam primary imaging (Obs 5):
- We also followed up one of the suggestions made by a previous reviewer on 4/1/20, about our PA constraint in NIRCam primary imaging. We reached that we do not need this constraint. Removing this constraint will increase the observable window of the target. Noted that we will still need final adjustment of the pointing once PA is assigned, to make sure that 1. our primary target (JD1) is within the deepest part of the NIRCam imaging and 2. we maximize the overlap between NIRCam imaging and the existing HST imaging (HFF's cluster center).
NIRSpec source catalog:
- We uploaded a new version of the source catalog in APT, which reflects updates in the coordinate system of the sources to a newly released GAIA-DR2 WCS. We did not run NIRSPEC MSA planner this time (but just leave the previous ones), as it needs a PA assigned to finalize the MSA mask. The primary target of this program, MACS1149-JD1, is now registered as ID=1006 in the newly uploaded catalog.
This includes GTO submission IDs: STIAVELLI_0001 through 0010.