---
id: 1200
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: "NIRISS/AMI"
pi_and_co_pis: "Thomas Vandal"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 8.8
program_title: "Architecture of Directly-imaged Extrasolar Planetary Systems"
type: ""
---
# 1200 - Architecture of Directly-imaged Extrasolar Planetary Systems
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1200
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label      | Observing Template                   | Science Target |
| :--------- | :----------------------------------- | :------------- |
| Target 1   | NIRISS Aperture Masking Interferometry | (1) HD-218396  |
| Target 2   | NIRISS Aperture Masking Interferometry | (2) HD-95086   |
| PSF Ref    | NIRISS Aperture Masking Interferometry | (4) HD-93649   |

---

## ABSTRACT

The Aperture Masking Interferometry mode of JWST/NIRISS offers a rare opportunity to probe extrasolar planetary systems with separations from less than 0.1" to 0.4" in the thermal infrared. On the one hand, AO-fed instruments from the ground mostly operate in the near-infrared and offer deep contrast down to 0.2" at best. On the other hand, thermal infrared is a regime in which the spectral energy distribution of young planets peaks, making AMI observations sensitive to planets with masses down to 4MJup around young and nearby stars. Therefore, AMI is an ideal mode that is complementary to ground based direct imaging to probe small angular separations to study the inner part of planetary systems. A complete knowledge of the architecture of extrasolar systems will provide an important observational test to overcome the main limitations of directly-imaged planets. Dynamical studies of multiple systems or systems with planets and disks give independent mass estimates that can be confronted with the model-dependent masses of these planets based on uncalibrated evolutionary tracks. We therefore propose in this project to make use of the AMI performance to help completing the view of the architecture of directly-imaged extrasolar planetary systems.
Observation IDs: DOYON_400[0-5]

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will observe HD 95086 and HR 8799, two directly-imaged exoplanatery systems using NIRISS AMI at F380M with the SUB80 in staring mode as recommended. HD93649 will also be observed to calibrate the fringes and will be common to both targets. To benefit from the best calibration strategy, all observations have to be executed in a non-interruptible sequence.
The number of groups for each target has been verified with the JWST ETC based on their magnitude in the WISE 3.5 micron filter (close to the SPITZER filter bandpass in the ETC) magnitudes to prevent saturation and to optimize the TACQ: HR8799 (5.2), HD95086 (6.7), and HD93649 (5.7). The ETC workbook is #156907.
The required exposure time has been calculated on actual end-to-end simulations, not using the analytical formulae, with a well depth of ~30ke, not using the analytical formulae. Therefore, the number of photons in the following might not completelly match the settings for every target: HR8799 (1.06e10), HD95086 (1.14e10), and HD93649 (1.21e10).
Total requested time is 8.59h.
Our calibrator HD 93649 will also be observed in F480M and F430M to benefit program ID 1260 (PI Ford, observations DOYON_80[00-11]).