---
id: 1204
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 19.4
program_title: "Are There AGN Embedded in All Ultraluminous Infrared Galaxies (ULIRGs)?"
type: ""
---
# 1204 - Are There AGN Embedded in All Ultraluminous Infrared Galaxies (ULIRGs)?
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1204
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label             | Observing Template                       | Science Target                       |
| :---------------- | :--------------------------------------- | :----------------------------------- |
| IRASF14378-3651   | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy      | (17) Group IRASF14378-GROUP          |
| IRASF17208-0014   | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy      | (18) Group IRASF17208-GROUP          |
| IRASF23365+3604   | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy      | (19) Group IRASF23365-GROUP          |
| IRASF14378SPEC    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy                 | (25) IRASF14378-3651-NS              |
| IRASF17208SPEC    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy                 | (26) IRASF17208-0014-NS              |
| IRASF23365SPEC    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy                 | (27) IRASF23365+3604-NS              |

---

## ABSTRACT

The possibility that the apparent association between the most luminous AGNs and global star formation is just a result of a common dependence on galaxy mass would indicate that the peaks of star formation and black hole accretion are well separated in time. This leaves the possibility that nascent AGNs are just starting to emit in the cores of the most dramatic star forming galaxies, as predicted by some theoretical simulations; the period as a merger is being completed should be when the AGN is accreting most rapidly and is bright. To probe this possibility requires observational indicators of very weak AGN that are robust against extinction and cannot be confused by star formation. Under this program (ID 1204), we will use a number of mid-infrared indicators to test for embedded AGN in a small number of nearby ULIRGs.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose an efficient observational approach, using only the Band A position of the MIRI Medium Resolution Spectrometer (MRS). The wavelength coverage includes the stellar-dominated continuum from 4.87 - 5.82 microns (channel 1), the 7.7 microns aromatic band and [NeVI] 7.65 microns up to z = 0.15 in channel 2, [NeII] 12.8 microns to z = 0.06 in channel 3, the 11.3 microns aromatic feature above z = 0.042 in the same channel, and [SIII] 18.71 microns to z = 0.12 in channel 4. Because the AGN are expected to grow rapidly and thus be luminous during the final stages of mergers, we have selected targets in merger stages 4, 5, or 6. Our target list is therefore IRAS 12112+0305 (z = 0.07332, merger = 4); 14378-3651 (z = 0.0676, merger = 6); 17208-0014 (z = 0.0428, merger = 5); and 23365+3604 (z = 0.06444, merger = 5) four ULIRGs with no, or weak and conflicting, evidence for AGNs.

A challenge for this program is obtaining a very accurate relative response function at the wavelengths of the [Ne VI] line (as redshifted) so we can detect it even at very small equivalent widths.
We address this with a 4-pt dither so the spectra come up on a variety of different pixels.

A useful complement to these measurements is that all of these galaxies have archival spectra from the IRS on Spitzer, providing the possibility to compare feature strengths in the relatively large slit of that instrument with the detailed spatial resolution of the same regions with the MIRI IFU. In addition, we are obtaining NIRSpec IFU spectra at a resolution of about 3000 to look for any broad components on the hydrogen recombination lines and to document the behavior of the SEDs from 4.5 - 5.3 microns to match to the MIRI spectra.

Note: a fifth target, 15327+2320 (Arp 220, z = 0.0181, merger = 4), is being done in collaboration with the MIRI EC team in proposal 1267.