---
id: 1206
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 13.4
program_title: "Extreme Debris Disks and Disk Variability"
type: ""
---
# 1206 - Extreme Debris Disks and Disk Variability
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1206
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                                   | Observing Template                  | Science Target            |
| :-------------------------------------- | :---------------------------------- | :------------------------ |
| MRS-ID8                                 | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) NGC2547-ID8           |
| MRS-ID8                                 | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) NGC2547-ID8           |
| MRS-ID8                                 | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (8) NGC2547-ID8-dr3       |
| MRS-V488PER                             | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) V-V488-PER            |
| MRS-V488PER Repeat of observation 2     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (7) V-V488-Per-dr3        |
| MRS-V488PER                             | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) V-V488-PER            |
| MRS-HD23514                             | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) HD-23514              |
| MRS-HD15407                             | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (6) HD-15407              |

## ABSTRACT

    "Extreme debris disks" refers to a class of the planetary debris disks with excesses at 24 microns by at least a factor of four over the photospheric outputs of their stars. Some extreme debris disks are known to have variable emission over timescales of order 1 year and shorter, even a month or less. In general, these systems have strong mineralogical features in their mid-infrared spectra, indicative of very finely divided dust that must be generated continuously to replace that lost by stellar radiation pressure. It is difficult to explain the very rapid variability of these sources and the transient dust lifetimes without invoking condensation of finely divided grains from silica gas. In fact, a sub-class of extreme debris systems shows solid state features in mid-infrared spectra showing the presence of fine silica (not silicate) dust, evidence for condensation from the gas, and perhaps even for the silica gas itself. Such gas is expected to be a product of high-speed collisions between relatively large planetesimals. Where multi-epoch spectra are available, they usually do not show variability in the spectral features despite the dramatic photometric variations, but high signal to noise spectra are needed to probe this question by comparison with the archival Spitzer IRS spectra. In addition, the improved spectral resolution of the new observations will aid in diagnosing the mineralogy of the dust. The goal of our program (ID 1206) is to obtain high signal to noise MIRI spectra of seven selected objects showing signs of extreme collisions that may trace the progress of terrestrial planet building.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

    The goal of our program is to obtain high signal to noise MIRI spectra of selected objects showing signs of extreme collisions that may trace the progress of terrestrial planet building. The sources are relatively bright and the spectra will be obtained quickly. To give an example, one of the highest priority targets, ID8 in NGC 2547, observed for half an hour in each of the three grating settings of the MRS, would be measured across its 10 micron spectral feature at a signal to noise ratio > 1000, and across its 16-20 micron feature at a SNR > 100 (or > 500 smoothed to the equivalent resolution of the Spitzer spectrum). These spectra will in general be the first since the cold Spitzer mission and can be used to search for even very low-level spectral variability. They also will provide much higher spectral resolution than the Spitzer IRS spectra so it may be possible to identify the compositions of the materials participating in the collisions around these stars more accurately. Together with our ongoing monitoring of the variations with warm Spitzer and the roughly 15 year baseline between mid-infrared spectra, we should be able to determine key parameters of these systems, including the rate of large collisions, the clearing time for the debris produced, and the mechanisms for producing the debris. A final set of seven targets has been selected for MIRI based on the results of our time-series observations with warm Spitzer and groundbased photometry and spectroscopy in the 10 micron atmospheric window using COMICS on the Subaru Telescope. They are: ID8 in NGC2547, HD 15407A, HD 23514, and V488 Per.