---
id: 1207
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging  NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "George Rieke"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 90.3
program_title: "MIRI in the Hubble Ultra-Deep Field"
type: ""
---
# 1207 - MIRI in the Hubble Ultra-Deep Field
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1207
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                   | Observing Template                | Science Target                  |
| :---------------------- | :-------------------------------- | :------------------------------ |
| 1 Mosaic                | MIRI Imaging                      | (1) XDF-OFFCENTER               |
| 5 Mosaic Copy of Tile-2 | MIRI Imaging                      | (10) XDF-OFFCENTER-TILE-2       |
| 6 Mosaic Copy of Tile-6 | MIRI Imaging                      | (11) XDF-OFFCENTER-TILE-6       |
| 2 HUDF NS1 june23       | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (15) final_merged 23june2023    |
| 3 HUDF NS2 June23       | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (15) final_merged 23june2023    |
| 4 HUDF NS3 June23       | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (15) final_merged 23june2023    |

## ABSTRACT

    We plan a MIRI multi-band survey in the GOODS-S/HUDF region, covering about 30 square arcmin and using all the MIRI imaging bands. Selected galaxies from this survey will be observed with NIRSpec at R = 1000 and from 1 to 5.2 microns. We will model the photometry to separate AGNs from star forming galaxies. We expect to find 30 - 40 AGN of known types and detected at 10:1 signal to noise or higher at 21 microns. We should be able to identify any previously unknown obscured AGNs, and with the deep X-ray, optical and radio data in the same field should obtain a complete sample of these objects. This same survey will provide high quality measurements of some 2000 star forming galaxies. We will compare star formation rates determined from X-rays, hydrogen recombination lines, UV, and mid-infrared to calibrate these indicators at z = 2. We will also use the spectra to estimate metallicities and study the dependence of the aromatic bands and other properties of the galaxies on this parameter. Together these measurements will let us determine accurate SFR densities, luminosity functions, and other parameters relevant to galaxy evolution.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

    This program will be executed in two parts. First, MIRI imaging in 8 bands will be obtained in a 3x5 mosaic of the HUDF/GOODS-S region. The mosaic position was chosen to optimize overlap with the NIRCam GTO HUDF/GOODS-S program. AGN can be identified by their SEDs filling in the minimum in star forming galaxy SEDs near rest 4.5 microns. We are developing techniques based on the relative flux densities in the MIRI and some of the NIRCam bands for rapid separation of AGN from star forming galaxies, whose spectra not only have the aforementioned minimum but also are characterized by strong aromatic emission features. Deriving robust star formation rates from 21 micron photometry of highly luminous galaxies (i.e. ULIRGs) will require: 1.) distinguishing nuclear- concentrated star formation from galaxies where the SF is distributed over the disk, an issue for z < 1 (Rujopakarn et et al. 2013; Shipley et al. 2016); and 2.) determining in which cases the 21 microns output is contaminated by AGN. The mid-IR spectral energy distribution can be used as a proxy for the central concentration of star forming galaxies. JWST photometry can help select the appropriate spectral template through comparing the behavior of the output of the aromatic bands, which are dominant for 6 - 13 microns, with that of the dust grains that dominate the emission at 13 - 30 microns. For example, the MIRI photometric bands at 12.8 microns and 21 microns sample these two spectral components separately for 0 < z < 0.6. Their relative behavior can be expressed by the ratio of the flux densities in the two bands. Using the templates suggested by Rujopakarn et al. (2013), the ratio f(12.8)/f(21) for (low central concentration) over (high central concentration) is a factor of 1.5 or more over this redshift range. This approach can be extended to z = 1 by using the 15 micron and 25.5 micron bands. A relatively short integration in the latter band suffices for this application. AGN contamination can be identified with moderately deep observations in the additional MIRI bands, and the results can be tested with the ancillary datasets (e.g., deep X-ray and radio). Finally, the most luminous and embedded star forming galaxies can be identified from previous ultradeep surveys with Spitzer and Herschel, plus the high resolution (0.35 arcsec) and deep radio observations in this region.

    This MIRI imaging, together with the NIRCam GTO imaging, will then be used to select targets for NIRSpec MOS follow-up. Two pointings with NIRSpec will obtain R=1000, 1-5um spectra for selected targets. The target selection will prioritize conditional targets identified with MIRI (color- selected AGN, etc) and other interesting sources relevant to this program (radio sources, proto-cluster members, etc). Accurate positions will be determined through NIRCam imaging. As NIRSpec MOS follow-up in this proposal requires both MIRI and NIRCam pre-imaging, it is required that the NIRSpec follow-up not be scheduled for at least 60 days following the MIRI or NIRCam imaging, whichever is observed last. Background subtraction for the NIRSpec MSA will be done using the master background strategy with "blank sky" shutters.