---
id: 1208
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 218.4
program_title: "CANUCS: The CAnadian NIRISS Unbiased Cluster Survey"
type: ""
---
# 1208 - CANUCS: The CAnadian NIRISS Unbiased Cluster Survey
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1208
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                        | Observing Template                | Science Target                     |
| :--------------------------- | :-------------------------------- | :--------------------------------- |
| Abell370 NIRISS Prime        | NIRISS Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (1) ABELL370                       |
| NIRISS Abell370 part 2       | NIRISS Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (1) ABELL370                       |
| NIRISS Abell370 part 3       | NIRISS Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (1) ABELL370                       |
| NIRISS MACSJ0416 part 1      | NIRISS Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (2) MACSJ0416.1-2403               |
| NIRISS MACSJ0416 part 2      | NIRISS Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (2) MACSJ0416.1-2403               |
| NIRISS MACSJ0416 part 3      | NIRISS Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (2) MACSJ0416.1-2403               |
| NIRISS MACSJ0417 part 1      | NIRISS Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (3) MACSJ0417.5-1154               |
| NIRISS MACSJ0417 part 2      | NIRISS Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (3) MACSJ0417.5-1154               |
| NIRISS MACSJ0417 part 3      | NIRISS Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (3) MACSJ0417.5-1154               |
| NIRISS MACSJ1149 part 1      | NIRISS Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (4) MACSJ1149+2223                 |
| NIRISS MACSJ1149 part 2      | NIRISS Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (4) MACSJ1149+2223                 |
| NIRISS MACSJ1149 part 3      | NIRISS Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (4) MACSJ1149+2223                 |
| NIRISS MACSJ1423 part 1      | NIRISS Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (5) MACSJ1423.8+2404               |
| NIRISS MACSJ1423 part 2      | NIRISS Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (5) MACSJ1423.8+2404               |
| NIRISS MACSJ1423 part 3      | NIRISS Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (5) MACSJ1423.8+2404               |
| NIRCam Abell370              | NIRCam Imaging                    | (1) ABELL370                       |
| NIRCam MACSJ0416             | NIRCam Imaging                    | (2) MACSJ0416.1-2403               |
| NIRCam MACSJ0417             | NIRCam Imaging                    | (3) MACSJ0417.5-1154               |
| NIRCam MACSJ1149             | NIRCam Imaging                    | (4) MACSJ1149+2223                 |
| NIRCam MACSJ1423             | NIRCam Imaging                    | (5) MACSJ1423.8+2404               |
| a370 plan 1, a370 plan 2, a370 plan 3 | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy  | (69) a370_clu_nirspec_targets_v1 |
| M0416 Plan 1, M0416 Plan 2, M0416 Plan 3 | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy  | (68) macs0416_clu_nirspec_targets_v1 |
| config 1, config 2           | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy  | (65) MACS0417-CLU-NIRSPEC-TARGETS-V0 |
| config 3                     | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy  | (66) MACS0417-NCF-NIRSPEC-TARGETS-V0 |
| M1149_p1, M1149_p2, M1149 p3 | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy  | (70) macs1149_clu_nirspec_targets_v1 |
| Plan 5 3 configs             | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy  | (67) macs1423_clu_nirspec_targets_v1 |
| IFU observation of MACSJ0416-Y1 | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy          | (62) MACSJ0416-Y1                  |

---

## ABSTRACT

CANUCS is a JWST spectroscopy and imaging survey of massive galaxy cluster and parallel fields using the NIRISS low-resolution grisms, NIRCam imaging and NIRSpec multi-object spectroscopy. The primary goal is to understand the evolution of low mass galaxies across cosmic time. The resolved emission line maps and line ratios for many galaxies, some at resolution of 100pc, will enable determining the spatial distribution of star formation, dust and metals. Other science goals include the detection and characterization of galaxies within the reionization epoch, using multiply-imaged lensed galaxies to constrain cluster mass distributions and dark matter substructure, and understanding star-formation suppression and morphological transformation in the most massive galaxy clusters. This APT file also contains a NIRSpec GTO team IFU observation of a star-forming galaxy behind the cluster MACS J0416.1-2403.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The CANUCS program has three distinct observations per target field:

1.  NIRISS Wide-Field Slitless Spectroscopy (WFSS) on the cluster field with NIRCam Imaging on a parallel field.
    Observations 20,21,22,23,24,25,26,27,28,29,30,31,32,33,34
    Both grisms, GR150R and GR150C, are used with 3 filters, F115W, F150W and F200W. A large-sized 8 point dither pattern is executed for each grism+filter combination to carry out a deep slitless observation of the cluster core. A parallel field NIRCam survey is carried out using a range of W and M filters. The WFSS sequence with F115W+GR150R is split into two 4 point dither patterns with an offset to mimic the 8 point pattern, to allow two sets of NIRCam filters to be used in parallel for a total of 14 NIRCam filters. For MACSJ1149 only, the NIRISS grism exposures are split into Ng=14, Nint=2 to decrease saturation and persistence by bright stars.

2.  NIRCam Imaging on the cluster field with NIRISS WFSS on a parallel field.
    Observations 2,4,6,8,10
    One NIRCam module is pointed slightly offset from the NIRISS cluster pointing, using a 6 point INTRAMODULEX dither pattern, to cover a field slightly larger than the NIRISS field to allow the detection of sources outside the NIRISS field whose dispersed spectra will fall on the NIRISS detector. The NIRISS WFSS parallels use the F115W filter with both grisms and the F150W and F200W with only one grism. We understand observing with one grism in these 2 filters will lead to a higher fraction of targets affected by spectral contamination.

3.  NIRSpec Multi-Object R=100 Spectroscopy on the cluster field.
    Observations 46,47,48,49,50
    The NIRSpec multi-object spectroscopy of each field will be targeted with a combination of known sources from existing imaging (HST, MUSE, ALMA, Subaru, etc.) and from NIRCam pre-imaging obtained in this program (2. above). High-priority targets are galaxies for which NIRISS will not yield a redshift due to either contamination or a redshift with no emission lines in the NIRISS wavelength range (5 < z < 7.3) and very high-redshift and multiply-imaged lensed galaxies, some of which are already known based on existing imaging. The catalogs and MSA configurations in this APT file are therefore just placeholders to be changed when the NIRCam pre-imaging is obtained and processed. A tiny catalog file is used for the MPT because of the slowness of loading MSA configurations from large catalogs. Larger catalogs of known sources are included in the APT file, but not used in these placeholder MSA configurations.

ORIENT, background and schedule constraints:

We require at least 60 days between the NIRCam pre-imaging and NIRSpec observations to allow for data processing, analysis and target selection. All five target fields have two visibility windows in the cycle. For some targets, orientation special requirements have been set to align the parallel fields with existing HST data. In some cases the NIRCam pre-imaging is only possible in the second visibility window of cycle 1, potentially meaning the NIRSpec followup slips into cycle 2. We understand that some cycle 1 observations will necessarily slip into cycle 2 for efficient scheduling.

Due to the equal fields-of-view of NIRISS and one NIRCam module, any rotation between the NIRCam and NIRISS prime observations of the cluster field will cause a gap in simultaneous coverage, which is bad for our science that requires data from both instruments. Therefore we request the NIRISS and NIRCam observations at the same ORIENT (we note observing them sequentially would also be efficient for telescope operations, but is not essential). There are ORIENT constraints on the NIRCam+NIRISS observations due to the elongation of the cluster, alignment of parallels with existing data and/or contamination by very bright stars that would affect data quality.

We have analysed whether the observations are background-limited and should require the setting of a "Background Limited" special requirement following the procedure outlined on JDOX. All of the NIRISS and NIRCam observations are background limited and we set this special requirement with a limit of "Background no more than 20% above minimum". The windows of observable dates for each pair of NIRCam+NIRISS observations are in the range 8 to 20 days.

For the NIRSpec MSA follow-up observations only the two fields near the ecliptic, Abell370 and MACSJ1149, require the setting of a "Background Limited" special requirement. In this case we opt for a limit of "Background no more than 40% above minimum" so that the visibility windows are not too small. There are no ORIENT constraints on the NIRSpec MSA observations.

This APT file also contains a NIRSpec GTO Team IFU observation of a galaxy behind the MACS J0416.1-2403 cluster:
Observation 62
Target Y1 is a_z=8.3118 +/- 0.0003 galaxy
NIRSpec GTO IFU contact is Roberto Maiolino.
No TA is used as there are Gaia GS to obtain a pointing accurate enough for our purposes.
NRSIRS2RAPID is selected for the shorter prism observations for optimal identification and removal of cosmic rays.
NRSIRS2 is selected for the longer grating observations to ensure we do not exceed the allowed data rate.
The PA constraints are selected to avoid the MSA to fall on some bright stars and cluster galaxies.
Dither Cycling Medium 8 first positions
R2700 deep integrations (5h) in Band 3
R100 (1h) + 1 leakage position