---
id: 1209
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: "NIRISS/SOSS"
pi_and_co_pis: "Etienne Artigau"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 4.3
program_title: "Probing the Cloud Properties of SIMP0136+0933"
type: ""
---
# 1209 - Probing the Cloud Properties of SIMP0136+0933
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1209
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label               | Observing Template                      | Science Target                     |
| :------------------ | :-------------------------------------- | :--------------------------------- |
| Single staring visit | NIRISS Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy | (1) SIMP-J013656.5+093347.3 |

## ABSTRACT

SIMP0136 is one of the nearest isolated brown dwarfs to the Sun; this early-T dwarf lies in the temperature range where dust-bearing clouds, more typical of L dwarfs, sink below the photosphere. The inhomogeneous cloud coverage on its surface leads to rotation-induced variability at the 2-7% level over its 2.4 h rotation. Furthermore, the evolution of the cloud patterns leads to a modulation of the lightcurve over timescales of a few days. We propose to obtain time-resolved SOSS spectroscopy of this benchmark variable brown dwarf over an entire rotation. These observations will detect variability at the 20-70 sigma level for all resolution elements within a 10-min time bin. By probing different heights in the atmosphere, variability of different chemical species will trace the vertical extent of dust-clouds. Detection of out-of-equilibrium species, such as Cs, will provide insight into upwelling mechanisms in ultracool atmospheres. This work will have a strong bearing on the study of hot exoplanets; at a temperature of 1200 K, SIMP0136 is similar to numerous hot Jupiters. Proper description of dust behaviour is key in understanding transit spectroscopy data as dust clouds can readily mask the lower layers of an otherwise clear atmosphere.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to observe a bright brown dwarf with the SOSS mode and monitor its spectrum over a little more than a rotation period (2.4h). The object is much fainter than most SOSS targets. These observations will resolve the rotation period in ~10 minute bins.