---
id: 1210
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "Nora Luetzgendorf"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 73.4
program_title: "NIRCam-NIRSpec Galaxy Assembly Survey - GOODS-S - Part #1b"
type: ""
---
# 1210 - NIRCam-NIRSpec Galaxy Assembly Survey - GOODS-S - Part #1b
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1210
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                        | Observing Template                | Science Target              |
| :--------------------------- | :-------------------------------- | :-------------------------- |
| JADES Deep/HST (Obs 1) Replan | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (2) DEEP-HST-V1-CLEAN |

---

## ABSTRACT

We will conduct an ambitious deep-field survey to study the formation and evolution of galaxies from z 12 to z 2. Our program combines NIRSpec, NIRCam, and MIRI data, alongside the deepest data from HST, Chandra, ALMA, and JVLA, to produce an unprecedented view of high-redshift galaxies. The program is a collaboration of the NIRSpec and NIRCam GTO teams, and it combines imaging and spectroscopy as well as full use of coordinated parallel observations to get the best out of all three instruments. Indeed, to pursue a detailed understanding of galaxy evolution, the combination of imaging and spectroscopy is critical. By bringing these data sets together on a single field, we will carry out systematic investigations far beyond the sum of the parts.
This survey will provide the rest-frame optical data of sufficient area, depth, and spectral resolutions to map galaxy population properties, including the joint distribution of stellar mass, luminosity, star formation rate, stellar ages, sizes, metallicity, nuclear activity, gas kinematics, and outflows, over a wide range of redshifts. Broadly speaking, spectroscopy (at R = 100, 1000, and 2700) provides precise and robust redshifts, measurement of the stellar continuum, and emission lines to z 10 and beyond. The emission lines allow us to diagnose the galaxies' star formation rate (SFR), metallicities, chemical abundances, the ISM dust-reddening, and the ISM excitation, including signatures of AGNs. Low-resolution spectroscopy (R=100) for the brighter objects can also diagnose the stellar populations (especially the stellar age distribution). High-resolution spectroscopy (R=2700) can diagnose internal galaxy kinematics and outflows.
The multi-wavelength NIRCam imaging will allow the detection, selection and characterization of galaxies to z = 15 and perhaps beyond. It will determine colors, morphological structure, and color gradients, while supplying photometric redshifts, stellar mass, and star formation rate estimates along with measures of equivalent widths of the strongest emission lines. The depth reached is unparalleled and will lead to luminosity functions to substantially higher redshift and lower mass than can be done with HST. Deep MIRI imaging will enable a rest-frame infrared view of subset of our sample, testing the assumptions of our UV/optical modeling and revealing heavily obscured stellar populations and nuclear activity. Combination with external data from Chandra, JVLA, and ALMA will further explore nuclear activity and dusty star formation. We expect that this carefully constructed survey will provide a primary legacy dataset for many years to come.
Warning: The pointing positions in this APT file are not yet final as the positions depend upon the field orientation which in turn depends on the as yet undetermined date of observation. Additionally, the NIRSpec MOS target catalog included in this APT file is a placeholder for the actual catalog that will be revised depending upon the final pointing positions. An explanation of these issues and full field NIRSpec MOS target catalogs are available at https://issues.cosmos.esa.int/jwst-nirspecwiki/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=3473486

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Prism and grating observations with NIRSpec in GOODS-S with NIRCam in parallel.
3 dither positions (resulting in 3 MSA configurations). Dither sizes and exact pointing locations are not final. The dithers were created using slightly different central positions for the MSA search grid in the MPT Planner. At each position, a MSA configuration was created for the PRISM/CLEAR setup and the gratings separately. This results in 6 plans which were then merged into one observation.
At each dither position, 3 nods are performed for each of the prism and grating setups. Each prism and grating setup has 2 integrations of 19 groups. The prism has 4 sequences at each position to build up signal-to-noise. The automatic visit splitting of the APT splits the total observations by dither in this setup, i.e. each visit represents one dither position in this setup. Some spectral overlap will be allowed for the gratings with the aim of obtaining spectra of many of the same sources in the prism and gratings.
NIRCam imaging observations are carried out in parallel.
PA Range special requirements have been defined to ensure the highest priority targets can be observed simultaneously. There are good scheduling opportunities throughout the cycle.
The current setup displayed in the observations is for NIRSpec Aperture PA of 44.5 degrees, V3PA=266 degrees.
**A note on NIRSpec MSA catalog and configurations**
A target catalog is included in this APT file. This catalog was used to generate the dummy MSA configurations without any target prioritisation. Therefore the targets selected by the MPT in this file do not indicate the actual highest priority targets that will be observed.
The actual targets entering the MSA shutters will be defined, with target prioritisation, only after the instrument distortion is characterized during commissioning and an ORIENT has been assigned.