---
id: 1211
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "Nora Luetzgendorf"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 30.6
program_title: "NIRSpec WIDE MOS Survey - GOODS-N"
type: ""
---
# 1211 - NIRSpec WIDE MOS Survey - GOODS-N
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1211
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
**1. List of Labels, Observing Templates, and Science Targets (OBSERVATIONS table):**

| Folder Observation | Label         | Observing Template                | Science Target    |
| :----------------- | :------------ | :-------------------------------- | :---------------- |
| 20                 | eMPT 2000     | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (11) GOODSN2000   |
| 13                 | eMPT 2001     | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (20) GOODSN2001   |
| 14                 | eMPT 2002     | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (13) GOODSN2002   |
| 21                 | eMPT 2003     | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (14) GOODSN2003   |
| 15                 | eMPT 2004     | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (15) GOODSN2004   |
| 16                 | eMPT 2005     | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (16) GOODSN2005   |
| 17                 | eMPT 2006     | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (17) GOODSN2006   |
| 18                 | eMPT 2007     | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (18) GOODSN2007   |
| 19                 | eMPT 2008     | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (19) GOODSN2008   |
| 65                 | eMPT 2004     | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (15) GOODSN2004   |
| 66                 | eMPT 2005 reobs | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (16) GOODSN2005   |

---

## ABSTRACT

This WIDE MOS survey lays out the widest-area portion of the NIRSpec MSA GTO galaxy evolution program, based on the premise that even the fastest (overhead-sensible) tiling of the sky opens up an observational discovery space that is unattainable by other means and scientifically compelling. The WIDE MOS survey will cover 31 pointings (9 in the GOODS-N field) with the R100 prism (40min integration) and the high-resolution R2700 Band II & III grating settings (30 min integration each). This program will provide continuum spectra for all sources in the targeted CANDELS fields with mF160W <24.0mag (AB) and z>2 (at R100 ~50 objects per field of view); emission line spectra (at R=100 and R2700 ~250 objects per field of view) for all objects with SED-expected H-emission lines fluxes > 10^-17 ergs/s/cm2 (corresponding to star formation rates of 6Msun/yr at z~3). The main science drivers are: 1) a survey of 1-5m stellar continua at 10x higher resolution than photometry affords, constraining and calibrating SFR's and stellar population ages, 2) a comprehensive 1-5m survey of emission lines, to characterize the emission line properties (SFR, excitation and possibly [Fe/H]) of galaxies (mostly at z>4), and 3) to systematically explore the population incidence of ionized gas outflows and kinematics of galaxies over a large range of properties and redshifts. This survey is also an excellent (and possibly rapid) legacy data set for follow-up by the GTO team and the community.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Using JWST/NIRSpec we will observe hundreds of galaxies in the GOODS-N survey field with 9 MSA pointings as part of the “Physics of Galaxy Assembly MSA survey” (Programme 1211, PI: P. Ferruit). Observations will be done in MSA mode with grating/filters PRISM, G235H/F170LP and G395H/F290LP. The observing strategy for the MSA currently consists of 3 nod in slits exposures for the PRISM and 2 nod in slits exposures for G235H and G395H grism. For PRISM and G235H we are taking a series of 11 groups of integrations and 12 groups for G395H. All expsures use the IRS2 readout mode. The MSA mask design will be reviewed once the V3 angle of JWST will be assigned to the program and the current mask are not yet representative at a freely chosen valid PA.