---
id: 1212
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "Nora Luetzgendorf"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 28.2
program_title: "NIRSpec WIDE MOS Survey - GOODS-S"
type: ""
---
# 1212 - NIRSpec WIDE MOS Survey - GOODS-S
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1212
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label          | Observing Template             | Science Target       |
| :------------- | :----------------------------- | :------------------- |
| WIDE_2010      | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (2) GOODSS2010       |
| WIDE_2009      | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (1) GOODSS2009       |
| WIDE_2011      | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (3) GOODSS2011       |
| WIDE_2012      | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (4) GOODSS2012       |
| WIDE_2013      | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (5) GOODSS2013       |
| WIDE_2014      | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (6) GOODSS2014       |
| WIDE_2015      | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (7) GOODSS2015       |
| Replan_2012    | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (4) GOODSS2012       |

---

## ABSTRACT

This WIDE MOS survey lays out the widest-area portion of the NIRSpec MSA GTO galaxy evolution program, based on the premise that even the fastest (overhead-sensible) tiling of the sky opens up an observational discovery space that is unattainable by other means and scientifically compelling. The WIDE MOS survey will cover 31 pointings (7 in the GOODS-S field) with the R100 prism (40min integration) and the high-resolution R2700 Band II & III grating settings (30 min integration each). This program will provide continuum spectra for all sources in the targeted CANDELS fields with mF160W <24.0mag (AB) and z>2 (at R100 ~50 objects per field of view); emission line spectra (at R=100 and R2700 ~250 objects per field of view) for all objects with SED-expected H-emission lines fluxes > 10^-17 ergs/s/cm2 (corresponding to star formation rates of 6Msun/yr at z~3). The main science drivers are: 1) a survey of 1-5m stellar continua at 10x higher resolution than photometry affords, constraining and calibrating SFR's and stellar population ages, 2) a comprehensive 1-5m survey of emission lines, to characterize the emission line properties (SFR, excitation and possibly [Fe/H]) of galaxies (mostly at z>4), and 3) to systematically explore the population incidence of ionized gas outflows and kinematics of galaxies over a large range of properties and redshifts. This survey is also an excellent (and possibly rapid) legacy data set for follow-up by the GTO team and the community.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Using JWST/NIRSpec we will observe hundreds of galaxies in the GOODS-S survey field with 7 MSA pointings as part of the “Physics of Galaxy Assembly MSA survey” (Programme 1212, PI: Luetzgendorf). Observations will be done in MSA mode with grating/filters PRISM, G235H/F170LP and G395H/F290LP. The observing strategy for the MSA currently consists of 3 nod in slits exposures for the PRISM and 2 nod in slits exposures for G235H and G395H grism. For PRISM and G235H we are taking a series of 55 groups of integrations and 60 groups for the G395H setup. In all cases we use the IRS2RAPID readout mode. An additional setup with the G140M/F100LP grism using 3 nod in slit exposures of 55 groups is added for one pointing to get blue continuum spectroscopy of a view high-priority targets.