---
id: 1215
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 26.3
program_title: "NIRSpec WIDE MOS Survey - UDS"
type: ""
---
# 1215 - NIRSpec WIDE MOS Survey - UDS
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1215
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label              | Observing Template                  | Science Target      |
| :----------------- | :---------------------------------- | :------------------ |
| HIMIKO             | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy            | (7) HIMIKO-F-6.60-L |
| eMPT 2029          | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy    | (13) WIDE2029       |
| eMPT 2030          | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy    | (14) WIDE2030       |
| eMPT 2031          | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy    | (18) WIDE2031       |
| eMPT 2032          | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy    | (19) WIDE2032       |
| eMPT 2033          | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy    | (20) WIDE2033       |

---

## ABSTRACT

This WIDE MOS survey lays out the widest-area portion of the NIRSpec MSA GTO galaxy evolution program, based on the premise that even the fastest (overhead-sensible) tiling of the sky opens up an observational discovery space that is unattainable by other means and scientifically compelling. The WIDE MOS survey will cover 31 pointings (5 in the UDS field) with the R100 prism (40min integration) and the high-resolution R2700 Band II & III grating settings (30 min integration each). This program will provide continuum spectra for all sources in the targeted

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

For MSA part:
Using JWST/NIRSpec we will observe hundreds of galaxies in the UDS survey field with 5 MSA pointings as part of the “Physics of Galaxy Assembly MSA survey" (Programme 1215, PI: P. Ferruit). Observations will be done in MSA mode with grating/filters PRISM, G235H/F170LP and G395H/F290LP. The observing strategy for the MSA currently consists of 3 nod in slits exposures for the PRISM and 2 nod in slits exposures for G235H and G395H grism. For PRISM and G235H we are taking a series of 11 groups of integrations and 12 groups for G395H. All exposures are taken in IRS2 readout mode. The MSA mask design will be reviewed once the V3 angle of JWST will be assigned to the program and the current mask are not yet representative at a freely chosen valid PA.

For IFU part:
Using JWST/NIRSpec we will observe HIMIKO, a bright and extended Lyman-alpha emitting galaxy at z~6.6, which corresponds to the program "Physics of Galaxy Assembly IFU survey” (Programme 1221, PI: P. Ferruit). Observations will be done in IFU mode with grating/filters PRISM and G395H/F290LP. Originally, the total exposure time allocated to this program was 6.61h. However, because HIMIKO's coordinates are within few arcminutes one of the pointings of the WIDE-UDS program (1215, PI: P. Ferruit), we decided to merge the two observations fixing the visibility PA for HIMIKO to that of the WIDE-UDS. This results in a reduced slew time for the combined observation of ~1770s, thus allowing to increase the total available time by ~0.25h for each program, for a total of 8.56h in the case of the IFU observation. Please note that the latter is the revised time allocated to this specific observation, which is higher than allocated in the previous submission as a consequence of a redistribution of the observing time within the Galaxy Assembly IFU programme to optimize the programme The chosen PA is selected to avoid two bright stars otherwise falling within the MSA during the IFU observation.
We do not use target acquisition as for the selected orient range there are GS in the Gaia catalogue that will therefore provide a pointing accuracy that is good enough for our purposes.