---
id: 1216
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "Nora Luetzgendorf"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 72.2
program_title: "Integral Field Spectroscopy in GOODS-S"
type: ""
---
# 1216 - Integral Field Spectroscopy in GOODS-S
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1216
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label             | Observing Template        | Science Target          |
| :---------------- | :------------------------ | :---------------------- |
| 23170-GS-2.97     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (1) 23170-GS-2.97-S     |
| 18660-GS-3.07     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (2) 18660-GS-3.07-S     |
| 18660-GS-3.07     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (2) 18660-GS-3.07-S     |
| 18660-GS-3.07     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (2) 18660-GS-3.07-S     |
| 20936-GS-3.25     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (3) 20936-GS-3.25-S     |
| 19293-GS-3.11     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (4) 19293-GS-3.11-S     |
| 5001-GS-3.47      | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (5) 5001-GS-3.47-S      |
| 4891-GS-3.70      | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (8) 4891-GS-3.70-S      |
| 3073-GS-5.56      | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (9) 3073-GS-5.56-S      |
| 3073-GS-5.56      | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (9) 3073-GS-5.56-S      |
| 10578-GS-3.06-S   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (10) 10578-GS-3.06-S    |
| 133-GS-3.47-A     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (11) 133-GS-3.47-A      |
| 551-GS-3.70-A     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (12) 551-GS-3.70-A      |
| 774-GS-3.61-A     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (13) 774-GS-3.61-A      |
| 811-GS-3.471-A    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (14) 811-GS-3.471-A     |
| 539-GS-4.76-A     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (15) 539-GS-4.76-A      |

---

## ABSTRACT

These observations are part of the NIRSpec GTO Physics of Galaxy Assembly IFS survey. The goal of this program is to characterize the internal structure of distant galaxies and, therefore, investigate the primary physical processes driving galaxy evolution. The main specific objectives are: to trace the distribution of star formation and map the resolved properties of the stellar populations, to trace the gas kinematics (i.e. velocity fields, velocity dispersion) and, hence, determine dynamical masses and also identify non-virial motions (outflow and inflows), and to map metallicity and dust extinction. These quantities will be mapped for some of the brightest and most extended star forming galaxies and AGN/QSO hosts up to z ~7, and beyond.

This APT is for NIRSpec IFU observations in GOODS-S. The sample includes star-forming galaxies (SFG), and AGNs, and covers the redshift range ~ 3-6. For the SFGs the observations are done at R100 and R2700. For the AGNs only R2700 observations are included. The specific band for the high-resolution observations mainly depends on the redshift, and it is aimed at including the most important emission lines (generally from ~ Hbeta to Halpha).

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This program consists of NIRSpec/IFU observations of high-z galaxies in GOODS-S. Therefore all the targets are close in the sky, and it is possible to take advantage of the "smart accounting" to save slew overheads.

There are two different types of sources: star-forming galaxies (SFG), and active galactic nuclei (AGN). For the SFGs the observations are done at R100 and R2700. For the AGNs only at R2700. The specific band for the high-resolution observations mainly depends on the redshift, and it is aimed at including the most important emission lines (generally from ~ Hbeta to Halpha).

The sample has been divided into two groups, each with different telescope PA contraints. The groups (and PA ranges) are defined such that contamination in the R100 spectra due to nearby sources leaking through the MSA is minimized, while still requiring a large slew per group. For the emission line high-resolution (R2700) spectra this is not so critical, but still we have checked for very bright sources in the MSA quadrants. In addition, a leakage exposure for R=100 is taken.

No TA (target acquisition) is included, as it has been checked that most of the guide stars have GAIA astrometry. The small fraction of guide stars that have not gaia ID, also have good astrometry (~0.1").

A 8-point (4-point) dither pattern has been considered for the SFGs (AGN).

The "medium" cycling pattern provides a good compromise between an amplitude (~0.5 ") large enough to "jump" the failed open microshutters and to deal with other sources of background, while keeping a large FoV (~ 2.5"x2.5") with complete exposure time. This dither pattern also provides a good sub-pixel sampling.

No extra background exposures are included. For R100 it was considered that there will be a relatively large number of spaxels free from galaxy emission to derive the background. For the R2700, in addition, the goal is to study the emission lines and therefore the background should be less relevant.