---
id: 1219
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS  NIRSpec/IFU and MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "Nora Luetzgendorf"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 18.8
program_title: "NIRSpec and MIRI spectroscopy of QSOs - part #3"
type: ""
---
# 1219 - NIRSpec and MIRI spectroscopy of QSOs - part #3
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1219
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                                      | Observing Template                        | Science Target           |
| :----------------------------------------- | :---------------------------------------- | :----------------------- |
| Q in A1 Extra, Q in A2 Extra               | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy          | (6) J1342-CAT-CORR-EXTRA |
| NIRSpec IFU                                | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy                  | (2) ULASJ1342+0928       |
| IFU PSF observation for J1342              | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy                  | (5) PSFSTARULASJ1342     |
| MRS-J1342                                  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy       | (2) ULASJ1342+0928       |
| MRS-J1342                                  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy       | (2) ULASJ1342+0928       |

---

## ABSTRACT

MIRI, with its spectral coverage from 5 to 28 um and sensitivity, is the only instrument onboard JWST able to explore the optical and near-infrared spectrum and light distribution of galaxies and QSOs at redshifts above 6.7. A complete 5 to 28 spectrum (~0.6 to 3.5 microns rest-frame) of the highest redshift (z=7.54) QSO J1342+0928, will be obtained, and simultaneous MIRI imaging of a nearby field will be taken with the F560W and F1000W filters.

The same APT file includes the NIRSpec observation of the same target with the IFU with the G395H grating (aimed primarily at mapping the main optical nebular lines Hbeta, [OIII], Halpha, [NII]) and the PRISM (for continuum; includes observing a PSF star) and with the fixed slit with the G140H and G235H gratings (aimed primarily at detecting IGM metal absorption systems). Simultaneously with the fixed slit observation (centered onto the quasar) the MSA will be used to observe galaxies imaged by the HST in the field of view, therefore these observations have been set up in MOS mode.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

**NIRSpec MSA OBSERVATION**
This corresponds to NIRSpec Proposal IDs: FERRUIT_4004 and FERRUIT_4104

(NIRSpec Contact Person: Chris Willott, chriswillott1@gmail.com)

The quasar will be placed in the fixed slits S200A1 and S200A2 whilst simultaneously configuring MSA shutters to target other galaxies identified in HST imaging. We use NIRSpec team software to design the MSA configurations and ensure they agree with positions in the APT MPT software.

We use the G140H/F070LP grating and filter combination to do spectroscopy at 0.7 to 1.8 microns. We realise there will be some spectral overlap at >1.4 microns but our prime targets have almost zero flux below 0.9 microns so this will not strongly affect the spectra. We also use the G235H/F170LP grating and filter combination to do spectroscopy at 1.7 to 3.1 microns.

**NIRSpec IFU OBSERVATION**
This corresponds to NIRSpec Proposal ID: FERRUIT_3054

(NIRSpec Contact Persons: Roberto Maiolino, r.maiolino@mrao.cam.ac.uk ; Santiago Arribas, arribas@cab.inta-csic.es

The NIRSpec IFU observation is done with the G395H grating and it is aimed aimed primarily at mapping the strongest optical nebular lines (Hbeta, [OIII], Halpha, [NII]).
We also include R100 observation (+ 1 leakcal) for the continuum (and the fluxes of other lines)
We are using no target acquisition (i.e. point-and-shoot).
At any of the constrained PA range there are Gaia GS that can be selected for guiding and which will
ensure the proper location of the target within the IFU aperture, with the required accuracy.

We are using NRSIRS2RAPID for a better identification and rejection of cosmic rays for the R100 observations. For the longer grating observations we use NRSIRS2 to reduce data volume.

Justification of Special Requirements:

An offset has been applied to reduce the effects of the gap on the Hbeta line (center at @4.15 microns).
According to https://jwst-docs.stsci.edu/jppom/special-requirements/general-special-requirements#GeneralSpecialRequirements-Offset, the center target will be located in slice ~ 19, for wich the gap wavelength range is ~ 4.025-4.12 mu

Observation 8 is a PSF calibration standard star at R100 (PRISM) only. This observation should be done as a non-interruptible sequence with no change of telescope roll angle. The same offset as was used for the science target has been applied to the PSF star.

**MIRI OBSERVING DESCRIPTIONS:**
This corresponds to MIRI Proposal ID: WRIGHT_0601 and WRIGHT_0602

(MIRI Contact Person: Javier Alvarez-Marquez, javier.alvarez@cab.inta-csic.es)

The purpose of the program is to get a full 5 - 30 um spectrum of J2348 using the 3 MRS configurations with simultaneous Imager observations (see additional note 1). In addition, we request the imaging of the target in two filters: F560W, F770W.

The dithering strategies (4-pt, point source) were selected to optimize the PSF and detector effects in all MRS channels, and IMAGER filters. These strategies could be subject to change without modifying the total time.

Justification MIRI Special requirements:

The range of PAs has been selected such to avoid the presence of bright stars that would saturate the MIRIM simultaneous observations while MRS prime.

The background requirement has been selected to reduce the impact of the thermal background in the SNR of these faint high-redshift targets in channels 3 and 4.