---
id: 1222
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 41.1
program_title: "Cosmic Re-ionization, Metal Enrichment, and Host Galaxies from Quasar Spectroscopy"
type: ""
---
# 1222 - Cosmic Re-ionization, Metal Enrichment, and Host Galaxies from Quasar Spectroscopy
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1222
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                                     | Observing Template                  | Science Target                     |
| :---------------------------------------- | :---------------------------------- | :--------------------------------- |
| FSS observation of J0020-3653             | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy     | (3) VDESJ0020-3653                 |
| FSS observation of J0020-3653             | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy     | (3) VDESJ0020-3653                 |
| FSS observation of J0411-0907             | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy     | (4) DELSJ0411-0907                 |
| FSS observation of J0439+1634             | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy     | (6) UHSJ0439+1634                  |
| Plan_A1_J1120, Plan_A2_J1120              | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy    | (9) eiger_prioritized_20231103     |
| IFU observation of J0020-3653             | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy            | (3) VDESJ0020-3653                 |
| IFU observation of J0020-3653             | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy            | (3) VDESJ0020-3653                 |
| IFU observation of J0411-0907             | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy            | (4) DELSJ0411-0907                 |
| IFU observation of J0439+1634             | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy            | (6) UHSJ0439+1634                  |
| IFU PSF observation for J0439+1634        | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy            | (8) PSFSTARUHSJ0439                |

---

## ABSTRACT

**Cosmic reionization and metal enrichment from quasar spectroscopy**
Cosmic reionization is one of the key frontiers in astrophysics. The re-ionization process informs on the properties of the ionizing sources in the early epoch of galaxy formation. We will carry out ‘blue extended' F070LP/G140H (0.7 to 1.8 microns) and F170LP/G235H (1.7 to 3.1 microns) R = 2700 NIRSpec fixed-slit spectroscopy of quasars at z > 6.5. These spectra will be free from the atmospheric absorption and sky emission that hampers ground-based observations.

**NIRSpec Galaxy Assembly IFS Survey**
NIRSpec 3 to 5 microns IFU spectroscopy of z > 6.5 quasar hosts: The primary goal is investigating the physics of AGN-driven outflows, as well as the effects onto their host galaxies. These observations will also enable us to investigate more broadly the properties of high-z AGN host galaxies.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This program combines observations for two NIRSpec GTO team science programs that target some of the same high-redshift quasars.

**Observations 1 and 2 - NIRSpec FSS observations of J0020-3653 and J0411-0907**
These are Fixed Slit Spectroscopy observations of two quasars observing for 9 exposures in each of the S200A1 and S200A2 fixed slits. Full-frame NRSIRS2 readout is used. If enabled in time for Cycle 1 we would also like to be able to configure the MSA to carry out a pseudo-slitless survey for high-redshift Lyman alpha emitters.
We use the G140H/F070LP and G235H/F170LP grating and filter combinations to do spectroscopy at 0.7 to 3.1 microns. We realise there will be some spectral overlap with G140H at >1.4 microns but our prime targets have almost zero flux below 0.9 microns so this will not strongly affect the spectra.

**Observation 5 - NIRSpec MSA observation of ULAS J1120+0641**
This is NIRSpec MSA follow-up of NIRCam pre-imaging in Simon Lilly's GTO Program 1243. This observation should not be scheduled until > 60 days after the pre-imaging is obtained. Since ULAS J1120+0641 is close to the ecliptic there are two well separated visibility windows per year. The pre-imaging should be in the first window and the MSA spectroscopy in the second.
The quasar will be placed in the fixed slits S200A1 and S200A2 whilst simultaneously configuring MSA shutters to target other galaxies identified in HST imaging. We use NIRSpec team software to design the MSA configurations and ensure they agree with positions in the APT MPT software.
We use the G140H/F070LP and G235H/F170LP grating and filter combinations to do spectroscopy at 0.7 to 3.1 microns. We realise there will be some spectral overlap at >1.4 microns but our prime targets have almost zero flux below 0.9 microns so this will not strongly affect the spectra.

**Observation 8 - NIRSpec MSA observation of UHS J0439+1634**
The quasar will be placed in the fixed slit S200A2 whilst simultaneously configuring MSA shutters to target other galaxies identified in HST imaging. We use NIRSpec team software to design the MSA configurations and ensure they agree with positions in the APT MPT software.
We use the G140H/F070LP and G235H/F170LP grating and filter combinations to do spectroscopy at 0.7 to 3.1 microns. We realise there will be some spectral overlap at >1.4 microns but our prime targets have almost zero flux below 0.9 microns so this will not strongly affect the spectra.
This quasar is gravitationally lensed and the flux is dominated by two images (A and B in Fan et al. 2019ApJ...870L..11) separated by 0.22 arcsec at a PA of +9 degrees. In order to maximize flux in the NIRSpec slit and separate the spectra of the two images we request an ORIENT closest possible to the axis defined by A & B. This is possible with V3PA in the range 70 to 72 degrees (NIRSpec Aperture PA 208.49 to 210.49) where the angular offset from ideal is only 20 degrees. This PA range also gives the lowest background for the observations.

**Observations 3 and 4 - NIRSpec IFU observations of J0020-3653 and J0411-0907**
These are G395H/F290LP observations with the NIRSpec IFU. Each target is observed with 6 exposures in a cycling dither pattern.
We are not using TA as Gaia GS are available for any orientation hence ensuring a pointing accuracy good enough for our purposes.
Optimal ORIENT V3PA ranges to avoid bright star leakage through the MSA are 0-30 and 273-285 for J0020, and 65-84 and 283-299 for J0411. For J0020 both these ranges can be set simultaneously in APT, whereas for J0411 only the 283-299 range has been applied.

**Observation 7 - NIRSpec IFU observations of UHS J0439+1634**
These are G395H/F290LP observations with the NIRSpec IFU. The target is observed with 8 exposures in a cycling dither pattern.
Because this quasar is bright, the exposures are shorter to limit saturation.
J0439 is also observed using the R=100 PRISM with the IFU. There is a single dither position leakcal exposure to measure leakage through the MSA.
We are not using TA as Gaia GS are available for any orientation hence ensuring a pointing accuracy good enough for our purposes.
NRSIRS2RAPID has been selected for a better identification and removal of cosmic rays glitches for the shorter PRISM observations only. For the longer grating observation we use NRSIRS2 to reduce data volume.
The ORIENT for J0439 has been restricted to avoid a bright star to be located inside the MSA footprint. This ORIENT range is compatible with that required for Observation 8 and has the lowest background.

**Observation 9 - NIRSpec IFU observation of PSF calibration star for UHS J0439+1634**
We observe a PSF calibration standard star at R100 (PRISM) only. This observation should be done as a non-interruptible sequence with Observation 7 with no change of telescope roll angle.