---
id: 1224
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 49.5
program_title: "Transiting Exoplanet Characterization with JWST/NIRSPEC"
type: ""
---
# 1224 - Transiting Exoplanet Characterization with JWST/NIRSPEC
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1224
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                      | Observing Template               | Science Target |
| :------------------------- | :------------------------------- | :------------- |
| L98-59d - Transit          | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (9) L98-59     |
| WASP-43b - Phase curve     | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (2) WASP-43    |
| WASP-107b - Transit        | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (3) WASP-107   |
| WASP-52b - Eclipse         | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (4) WASP-52    |

---

## ABSTRACT

JWST will revolutionize the study of exoplanet atmospheres by virtue of broader wavelength coverage, higher spectral resolution, better sensitivity, and longer uninterrupted observing time than existing facilities. Observable characteristics of exoplanets from primary and secondary eclipses, as well as phase curve observations, include: atmospheric composition probed by the presence and relative strength of spectral lines from different species; vertical thermal structure diagnosed by the relative strength of spectral lines of the same species formed at different pressures/heights in the atmosphere; formation of clouds and/or hazes revealed by the strength of line features relative to the continuum; and transverse heat redistribution and winds probed by the relative brightness at different orbital phases. We will use JWST/NIRSpec to execute three programs looking at different categories of planets and performing different types of investigations:
- attempting to detect molecular features in a super-Earth by taking spectra over the 2.9-5.2 micron wavelength range;
- obtaining a full phase curve of a hot Jupiter with high spectral resolution in the 2.9-5.2 micron wavelength range;
- taking a first NIRSpec look at the diversity of giant planets through a comparative study of two planets

The observations in this proposal correspond to observation IDs FERRUIT_5000, FERRUIT_5001, FERRUIT_5002, and FERRUIT_5003. Charged time (APT 2020.2): 48.91 hours

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will acquire a high-resolution transit spectra of the super-Earth L 98-59b and the warm super-Neptune/sub-Saturn WASP-107, a low resolution / full wavelength coverage eclipse spectra of WASP-52b, and the full phase curve of WASP-43b. The R = / ~ 2700 transit spectra will be taken using NIRSpec's 1.6 × 1.6 arcsec fixed slit and the corresponding gratings. The R ~ 100 eclipse spectra of WASP-52b will be obtained using the low resolution prism. We will make use of the NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series (BOTS) template, where long, non-dithered exposures are available with JWST staring at one pointing for the full duration of the visit.

Building on HST experience, each transit (duration t) should be bracketed by sufficient baseline integration in the same mode as the science observation to allow modeling of instrumental artifacts through the transit. The purpose of the baseline (duration b1 before and b2 after) is to enable subtracting or dividing by slow instrumental drifts. For Cycle 1, we have included sufficient baseline using the following scheme:

*   For transits with a duration t less than 55 minutes, we take the full transit duration before and after, b1 = b2 = t.
*   For transits longer than 55 minutes, but shorter than 2 hours, we acquire 55 minutes of baseline before and after the transit, b1 = b2 = 55 minutes.
*   for transits longer than 2 hours, we acquire half the transit time before and after, b1 = b2 = t/2.

This scheme will ensure that we always have at least one full transit time outside the transit event. Pending analysis of Cycle 1 data, we may revisit this for Cycle 2 with the aim of reducing the baseline integration times.

APT also requires us to provide an earliest and latest start phase for these time critical visits. Currently, a “direct scheduling” overhead of 1 hour is charged for programs with tight time window (TTW) constraints. As of 20 November 2017, TTW are observations with a timing contraint of less than 1 hour. Therefore, we have designed the observations using a 60 minute window so that no direct scheduling overhead occurs (t/2) before center of transit/eclipse the latest, and one hour earlier than that at the earliest. Therefore, the total baseline data collected will be 2 times b1 + 60 minutes long, with typically (on average) half of it before and half of it after the transit.

NIRSpec testing during CV3 and OTIS showed that the ASICs require only a short amount (15 minutes) of setting time after changing into subarray mode, if any. Therefore, we will have an adequate amount of baseline before and after the event with the above described schema in all cases.

---