---
id: 1225
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 3.7
program_title: "Star Formation in the Local Grouroup - NGC 3603"
type: ""
---
# 1225 - Star Formation in the Local Grouroup - NGC 3603
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1225
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                  | Observing Template             | Science Target               |
| :--------------------- | :----------------------------- | :--------------------------- |
| 1 (Observation Folder) | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (1) NGC3603-EMPT+TA+SPITZER |

---

## ABSTRACT

This sub-program will showcase the multi-object spectroscopy capabilities of NIRSpec for stellar studies. We will obtain medium- and high-resolution spectroscopy of hundreds of known pre-main sequence (PMS) stars of different ages, hosted in massive starburst clusters located in different environments (metallicity) in the Local Group. The target clusters are NGC 3603 in the Galaxy, 30 Dor in the Large Magellanic Cloud, and NGC 346 in the Small Magellanic Cloud. These PMS stars have been identified photometrically as objects with strong H excess emission and equivalent width exceeding 10 Å, and as such appear to be actively accreting from a circumstellar disc. While for many of these objects comparison

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Primary observations with NIRSpec

The NIRSpec primary observations are conceptually simple. We already know from accurate HST photometry in the V, I and Halpha bands the positions of PMS stars actively undergoing accretion in the fields of interest with 5 mas relative accuracy. Since the reference stars used for target acquisition are part of the same photometric catalogue, these observations do not need NIRCam pre-imaging.

The exact MSA configuration will only be generated when the assigned telescope orientation is known. However, with the typical density of primary targets (PMS stars) in our field of interest, extensive MPT simluations show that, regardless of orientation, at least 20 of these PMS stars can be placed within the acceptance zone of a MSA shutter, while still having the two neighbouring shutters in the cross dispersion direction free from other stars for background determination. Furthermore, the MSA configuration will be completed with several (~20) filler targets, namely older main-sequence and red-giant stars with similar colours as the PMS objects but no Halpha excess emission that are very abundant in the field. The typical MSA configuration will include ~40 targets and we will have three different configurations.

The MSA is configured in slitlet mode, so the dithering strategy to mitigate possible detector blemishes consists simply in a slew along the slitlet by one or two micro-shutters. Observations in the standard slitlet mode will simplify background subtraction, as per the standard NIRSpec pipeline.

The two practical goals of these observations are: (1) to measure spectroscopically the accretion luminosity and mass accretion rates of the target stars, to confirm that they are all accreting, even the older objects; and (2) to study more in-depth the accretion process, namely the kinematics and physical properties of the infalling gas.

For the first goal, we need to measure emission signatures in the Hydrogen recombination lines sampled by the spectra, and to derive their equivalent width and luminosity. The second goal is a more in-depth study of the accretion process, and of the kinematics and physical properties (e.g. opacity, temperature, density) of the infalling gas. We will use in both cases higher spectral resolution (R=2700) in order to sample the profile of the lines and reveal infalling gas with velocities above ~50 km/s. Therefore, we use the G235H/F170LP combination, since this again allows us to simultaneously sample Pa alpha, Br beta, and Br gamma. Regardless of where the sources are located in the field of view of NIRSpec, at least two of these lines will be recorded on the detectors.

Exposure times of ~ 40 min are sufficient to reach reach SNR~10 in the continuum at 2 micron for the typical 0.5 Msolar mass PMS strars with age 1 Myr.

Coordinated parallel observations with NIRCam

The NIRCam parallel observations consist of imaging in the F150W, F187N, and F182M bands for the short-wavelength (SW) camera and in the F277W, F405N, and F430M bands for the long-wavelength (LW) camera. In order to most effectively identify objects with excess emission in the Pa alpha and Br alpha bands, it is important to reach similar continuum magnitude levels in the narrow bands as well as in the neighbouring broad bands. The NIRCam exposure time calculator indicates that for a typical PMS star with effective temperature T_eff ~ 4000,K, reaching the same SNR in F187N and F405N as in the neighbouring broad bands requires exposures in principle almost 20 times longer. Hence, a considerable fraction of the total exposure time (about 3/4) should be devoted to the narrow bands. However, since the overhead times have increased tremendously with every new version of APT, we are now forced to keep similar exposure times in the broad and narrow bands. This means that the study of the excess in Pa alph and Br alpha will be limited to the stronger accreting PMS stars.

The dithering pattern is set by NIRSpec's nodding in the slitlet approach. Therefore, the dithering pattern for NIRCam is fully constrained both in time and offset. The three NIRSpec pointings with G235H/F170LP accommodate each one nodding sequences, with ~11 min exposures (15 groups) and three different MSA configurations, for a total of 3 nodding sequences. During each nodding sequence the NIRCam filter does not change. One sequence has the F150W/F277W pair, one sequence has the F182M/F430M pair, and one sequences has the F187N/F405N+F444W pair.