---
id: 1227
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging and MRS  NIRCam/Imaging  NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "Margaret Meixner"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 29.4
program_title: "NGC 346: Star Formation at Low Metallicity in the Small Magellanic Cloud"
type: ""
---
# 1227 - NGC 346: Star Formation at Low Metallicity in the Small Magellanic Cloud
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1227
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                                   | Observing Template                     | Science Target             |
| :-------------------------------------- | :------------------------------------- | :------------------------- |
| MSA Visit 1                             | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy       | (25) NGC-346-SHORT         |
| MSA Visit 2                             | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy       | (253) Combined_Final_Catalog |
| NIRCam Imaging - Spli t off Tile-4 - Epoch 1 | NIRCam Imaging                       | (5) NGC-346                |
| NIRcam imaging                          | NIRCam Imaging                       | (5) NGC-346                |
| MYSO #1 (Visit 2)                       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (20) Y535                  |
| MYSO #2 (Visit 2)                       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (21) Y544                  |
| MYSO #3 (Visit 2)                       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (22) Y532                  |
| MYSO #4 (Visit 2)                       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (23) Y533                  |
| MIRI imaging                            | MIRI Imaging                         | (5) NGC-346                |
| MIRI imaging Split off Tile-6           | MIRI Imaging                         | (18) NGC-346-TILE-6        |

---

## ABSTRACT

Observations of galaxies across cosmic time show that the star formation rate peaked at a redshift of ~1.5, meaning star formation in the Universe occurred predominantly at lower than solar metallicity for which an active burst mode may be more prevalent. However, the overwhelming majority of observational studies have been conducted on solar metallicity Milky Way star formation regions. The question is: Are there substantial differences in the star formation process at lower metallicity? Studies of star forming clouds in reduced metallicity galaxies have been inhibited by the lack of observatories with sufficient resolution and sensitivity. With JWST, we will be able to study star formation in the Magellanic Clouds like we can in the Milky Way with Spitzer. Our Spitzer SAGE and Herschel HERITAGE surveys of the LMC and SMC have revealed where to point JWST to study active star formation from the discovery of thousands of young stellar objects (e.g., Whitney et al. 2008; Gruendl and Chu 2009; Sewio et al. 2013; Carlson et al. 2012; Seale et al. 2014). In the SMC, we have selected the target NGC 346 for a comprehensive imaging and spectroscopic study with NIRCam, MIRI Imager, MIRI MRS spectroscopy and NIRSpec MSA spectroscopy. This target has prior HST images in which thousands of pre-main sequence stars were identified (Nota et al. 2006), Spitzer IRS spectral studies of the region and also young stellar objects in the region (e.g., Ruffle et al. 2015), and planned ALMA observations of the molecular gas (PI: Muller).

These observations are taken at two epochs separated by at least 6 months. The first epoch includes NIRCam imaging mosaics with MIRI in parallel; MIRI imaging mosaics with NIRCam in parallel and NIRSpec MOS spectroscopy with NIRCam in parallel. The imaging mosaicks have been set up so that the main NGC 346 region is covered no matter when the observation is taken. For the NIRSpec MOS spectroscopy in the G235M grating, the final target list will be drawn from H-alpha excess pre-main sequence stars identified with HST ACS imaging and also Spitzer and K-spec observations that have positions bootstrapped from HST/ACS. The targets for the first NIRSpec must have high precision positions. The second epoch is linked to the first epoch such that they are separated by at least 6 months but not more than one year to allow identification of sources for the second epoch. The second epoch includes NIRSpec MOS spectroscopy with NIRCam in parallel and MIRI MRS spectoscopy with simultaneous MIRI imaging. The NIRspec MOS spectroscopy uses three gratings: G235M, G395M and G235H. The MIRI MRS spectroscopy gets full spectra of the targets. The second epoch targets will all be based on the results of the NIRCam and MIRI imaging from the first epoch. The NIRSpec MOS targets will identify embedded targets of all evolutionary stages including targets with potential ice features and background stars with which to probe the ice features of the ISM. The current MIRI MRS targets are place holders for the future targets to be selected from the NIRCam and MIRI imaging and will sample objects of different evolutionary stages.

From the MIRI and NIRCam imaging study we plan to characterize the spectral energy distributions of over a thousand young stellar objects and pre main sequence stars to understand the evolution of the circumstellar disks and envelopes of forming stars over a wide range in mass (1 to 50+ M_sun) and evolutionary stage (0 to III). In particular, the greater clarity of JWST will enable us to detect for the first time the planet-forming dust disks around these solar-mass stars at the distance of the SMC and allow us to address questions such as: Can planet formation occur at low metallicity when dust disk masses may be smaller than Galactic counterparts? The MIRI imaging of the PAH bands will also probe the PAH physics of the gaseous regions.

From the MIRI spectroscopic study, we will characterize the circumstellar and interstellar environment of select massive star formation regions from the most (silicate in absorption and ice features) to least embedded (optically detected protoclusters). The NIRSpec MSA measurements will target both the pre-main sequence stars detected by H with HST and embedded targets detected as highly reddened by the NIRCam and MIRI imaging study. Full spectral coverage of both instruments will provide a wealth of information on the physical conditions of the ionized gas (atomic lines), and molecular gas (H2 lines) and the nature of the dust (PAHs, ice features) of the planet-forming YSOs at lower metallicities. The ionized atomic line emissions will provide excitation of the YSO and also the surrounding ISM. Molecular hydrogen quadra-pole vibrational and rotational lines trace the highly excited molecular gas in the region. The spectral resolution is high enough to detect ionized or molecular jets of gas at velocities >100 km s-1 allowing us to constrain outflow velocities. The NIRCam and MIRI imaging and prior work on YSO spectroscopy with Spitzer IRS will be used to identify appropriate MRS targets for epoch 2 followup in the NGC 346 region (Oliveira et al. 2009, 2013; and Seale et al. 2009). We will observe 3 targets in the imaged region with MIRI/MRS with different luminosities and/or evolutionary states.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

**DESCRIPTION of visit one:**
The program is split into two visits with the first visit including NIRCam and MIRI imaging done in parallel, and NIRSpec MSA medium resolution spectroscopy in the F200LP grating with NIRCam imaging in parallel. The second visit will include MIRI MRS spectroscopy, NIRSpec MSA high resolution and medium resolution spectroscopy of targets identified in the first visit with NIRCam imaging in parallel.
We request that the first visit be carried out early in the Cycle 1 time frame and the second visit not less than 4 months later in Cycle 1 so there is time to identify and plan the MSA observations.
This APT file describes the first visit.

**MIRI/NIRCam IMAGING PRIME/PARALLEL FILTER SELECTION:**
When MIRI is prime, the filter selection for MIRI is F770W and F1130W to study the PAH emission of the region, F1000W for silicate absorption, F1500W to estimate the mid-IR continuum, and F2500W to constrain the long wavelength end of the YSO spectral energy distributions. For the NIRCam parallel observations, we select 4 possible filter sets for NIRCam, 3 of which will be the NIRCam prime filter sets (F115/F277M, F187N/F335M, F200W/F444W). The F187N/F335M is selected twice to obtain a similar depth as the prime observations. We select one other combination: F140M/F356W. The F140M will provide an extra wavelength measurement that will help identify background galaxy contaminants (the most significant contaminant expected). The F356W will provide a measurement of the PAH emission in the off field and overlaps with our previous Spitzer 3.3 micron observations.
When NIRCam is prime, we use F115W/F277W, F200W/F444W, F187N/F335M, which sample the spectral energy distribution of the YSOs (all the wide filters), image the field in the PAH 3.3 band (F335M), and image the Pa-alpha band (F187N) which will be used to estimate contamination by the Br-alpha in our F444W observations. For the MIRI parallel observations, we can choose only three of our MIRI filters to measure the background and we choose F770W, F1000W and F1500W which provide the best separation of YSOs and evolved stars (Jones et al. 2017).

**MSA NIRSPEC WITH NIRCAM IN PARALLEL:**
We will use the NIRSpec MSA on NGC346. In this first visit, we will only use the medium resolution G235M/F170LP grating setting. We use the NRSIRS2RAPID readout mode to account for bright stars which will be present in this rich star cluster.
For the NIRCAM parallel filter selection there are two combinations. First we use F187N and F405N + F444W to estimate Pa-alpha and Br-alpha, respectively. For the second combination, we use F182M and F444W to get continuum levels for the hydrogen recombination lines.

**DESCRIPTION of visit 2 for the future APT file to be crafted after the delivery of the NIRCam and MIRI imaging data:**
**MSA NIRSPEC WITH NIRCAM IN PARALLEL:**
For the MSA oservations, we will first obstain medium resolution observations with the G235M/F170LP and G395M/F290LP settings to get full coverage from ~1.66 - 5.27 micron for up to 100 PMS and YSO targets. Integration times are tailored to reach 1-2 solar mass targets. Since the integration times are rather deep, we use the NRSIRS2RAPID readout mode to account for bright stars which will be present in this rich star cluster. In addition, we will acquire deep high-resolution G235H/F170LP observations to resolve and obtain the kinematics of the Paschen alpha line to trace accretion on the PMS stars.
For the NIRCam parallel observations: the regions surrounding NGC346 contains additional lower level star formation activity. The integrations in these NIRCam parallel fields will be much deeper than our NIRCam mapping of the prime field because the NIRSpec integrations will be longer. We plan to go deep in two sets of NIRCam filters: F115W/F277W_and F150W/F444W. These filters were chosen to be sensitive to sub-solar stars and the ~1 hour of integration for each set of filters will enable us to reach sub-solar masses on the stars and forming stars. In addition, we use F187N and F405N + F444W to estimate Pa-alpha and Br-alpha, respectively. For the second combination, we use F182M and F444W to get continuum levels for the hydrogen recombination lines (similar to the first visit).

**MIRI MRS OBSERVATIONS:**
When we use the MIRI MRS, we will be getting full spectral coverage (3 grating settings). Acquistion targets have been identified as point sources in previous Spitzer 5.8 image.