---
id: 1231
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/FS and IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "Aurelie Guilbert-Lepoutre"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 8.8
program_title: "Surface Composition of Mid-sized TNOs: Searching for Ammonia"
type: ""
---
# 1231 - Surface Composition of Mid-sized TNOs: Searching for Ammonia
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1231
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label      | Observing Template         | Science Target |
| :--------- | :------------------------- | :------------- |
| Orcus      | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy   | (1) ORCUS      |
| 2003AZ84   | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (2) 2003AZ84   |

## ABSTRACT

This program will focus on constraining the surface composition of 2 Charon-like objects, i.e. mid-sized Transneptunian objects (TNOs) with possible presence of ammonia at their surface. The recent observations of the NASA/New Horizons probe have shown that Charon's surface is possibly indicative of past cryovolcanic activity. Ammonia and ammonia hydrates, common antifreezes, have been detected in the spectra obtained both from the probe and ground-based facilities. We have selected 2 targets, Orcus and 2003 AZ84, with physical properties similar to Charon, for which past cryovolcanism could have been an interesting evolutionary path. Traces of volatiles such as ammonia and/or hydrates have been found in ground-based spectra of Orcus. We will further investigate this possibility, and open a new window into constraining the inventory of volatiles at the surface of Orcus by observing the 3-5micron range, where fundamental absorption bands of C-H-, N-H- and O-H-bearing ices can be found. Recent occultation results suggest that 2003 AZ84 may hold a canyon-like feature at its surface, similar to the large canyon seen on the surface of Charon. Given its other physical characteristics, this object is selected as our second target. Ground-based observations of this fainter TNO suggest that crystalline water ice may be the dominant volatile species present at its surface, though minor species cannot be constrained.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Both targets will be observed with the integral-field spectroscopy (IFS) mode of the JWST/NIRSpec instrument. For Orcus, we plan to use 3 high-spectral resolution configurations covering the 1.0-5.2 microns range with resolutions around 2700. For 2003 AZ84, which is fainter, we will cover the same spectral range but only at medium spectral resolution (~1000). We will also obtain low spectral resolution (30-300) spectra covering the 0.6 to 5.3 microns range in one shot.
*** Instrument mode: to minimize the overheads and to be robust with respect to errors in the astrometry of the target, we have decided to use the NIRSpec/IFS mode with a “point-and-shoot” observing strategy.
*** Dither / nodding pattern: to be more robust with respect to detector cosmetics, we do not want to obtain all the spectra of a given configuration at the same location on the detectors. As our targets are point-like, we have decided to use a 4-point nodding pattern.
Note that background subtraction may be more complicated than usual due to the fact that these are moving targets and that the background scene will change with time and may even be “trailed”.
*** Spectral configurations: in order to obtain information on multiple volatile species, we need good quality spectra covering broad spectral coverage and we have decided to typically cover the 1.0 to 5.0 microns range. To disentangle the signatures of the various species and to detect changes in the bands/lines profiles we need a minimum spectral resolution of ~1000. Although not strictly necessary, obtaining higher spectral resolution spectra could give us access to very interesting additional information.

Taking into account the impact of using the high-spectral resolution configuration on the signal to noise ratio per pixel of the spectra, at this stage we are planning to obtain high spectral resolution spectra for the brighter of the 2 objects (Orcus) and medium spectral resolution spectra for 2003 AZ84. Note that we will take another look at that before April 1st and we may decide to use only medium spectral resolution configurations.

We have also decided to acquire CLEAR/PRISM spectra for both objects. They are not necessary for the science case of this program but we consider that: (1) they will provide a useful sanity check with respect to the grating spectra (especially early in the mission where not all the calibration may be in place; (2) they will be very important to assess the usefulness of the low spectral resolution spectra for this type of program and will allow us to provide interesting feedback to the community on the use of NIRSpec and the choice of spectral configurations.