---
id: 1232
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging and MRS  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "Gillian Wright"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 9.6
program_title: "SN 1987A: The Formation and Evolution of Dust in a Supernova Explosion"
type: ""
---
# 1232 - SN 1987A: The Formation and Evolution of Dust in a Supernova Explosion
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1232
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                      | Observing Template               | Science Target |
| :------------------------- | :------------------------------- | :------------- |
| BRIGHT SKY SUB array       | MIRI Imaging                     | (1) SN-1987A   |
| MRS - ALL                  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) SN-1987A   |
| NIRSpec IFU -medium resolution | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy         | (1) SN-1987A   |

---

## ABSTRACT

From Supernova to Supernova Remnant, SN 1987A has given us a unique opportunity to study the mechanics of a supernova explosion and now to witness the birth of a supernova remnant. We want to understand how massive stars age and explode, how their ejecta form dust and molecules and how the blast wave from their violent explosion affects their surroundings.

The central stellar ejecta of SN 1987A is surrounded by a ring of progenitor gas and dust that has been shocked by the blast wave of the explosion, which is now leaving it and moving farther into the Interstellar Medium (ISM), which can thus be explored for the first time. SPITZER observations have shown that silicate dust emission from the equatorial ring accounts for most of the energy observed in the 5 – 12 m region. However, extra emission in the short wavelength region of the spectrum (3 – 5m) has also been observed, whose origin is still unclear: The excess may be due either to the presence of a secondary dust component (most probably of carbon type) or to free-free radiation. Our MIRI observations will help resolve this issue.

ALMA has discovered a large quantity (0.4-0.7 M) of cold dust (20 – 25K) in the ejecta. This came as a surprise for the dust discovered at day about 500 was much warmer and in a much lower quantity. Although MIRI will not be able to help in studying this very cold dust, our observations may provide clues on the fate of this warmest dust, and hence about its evolution with time, through imaging and MRS spectroscopy. Further, the ejecta is now hit by the reverse shock whose effects will be observed with IFU spectroscopy (MRS and NIRSpec). In addition, MRS spectroscopy will study the 30m region where SOFIA has observed an excess emission at about day 10730 which is not understood.

In summary, both the MRS and NIRSpec IFU spectroscopy will measure key shocked line diagnostics that will constrain the shock physics as well as the elemental abundances in both the ring and the stellar ejecta, while imaging and IFU spectroscopy in the mid-IR will provide key information about the morphology and the Spectral Energy Distribution of both components.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Observations of SN1987A
1) MIRI imaging using the bright sky sub array - NIRcam parallel
2) MIRI IFU - with simultaneous imaging with three filters: F560W, F770W, F1000W
3) NIRSpec IFU - medium resolution

MIRI filter imaging at F560W, F1000W, F1800W and F2550W using the bright sky sub array, together with MRS IFU and NIRSpec IFU imaging spectroscopy of the ring and ejecta will be obtained to measure the lines emission and continuum. Our goals are:
a) to study the effects of the interaction of the blast wave during its passage through the equatorial ring and to explore the farthest ISM.
b) to determine the nature of the ring's hot dust component discovered by Spitzer.
c) To study the evolution of the silicate dust emission observed in the ring.
d) to investigate the nature of the excess emission observed in the 30m region by SOFIA.
e) to search for the remains of the warm dust observed in the ejecta at much earlier epochs.
f) to study the presence of molecules in the ejecta.
g) to look for a remnant neutron star.

We will take all these measurements back-to-back in sufficient time to ensure the measurements are from the same epoch of this time-evolving object.

When MIRI imaging is prime we will be observing with NIRCam in parallel using the F140M/F335M, F115W/F356W, F150W/F444W and F200W/F277W NIRCam filters. The NIRCam observations will aim to pick up observations of young stellar objects in the environment and folds into Meixner's GTO program on YSOs in the nearby galaxies.

When the MRS IFU is prime we will use MIRI simultaneously to do imaging with the F560W, F770W, F1000W filtera: a 4pt dither pattern for extended sources will be used.

The NIRSpec IFU observations will use the medium resolution grisms: G140M/F100LP, G235M/F170LP, G395M/F290LP with a 4pt dither cycling pattern. We will also take leakcal observations for the G395M filter using the same number of dither and integration time. This strategy is optimized for crowded fields.

To avoid the need for leakcal observations for other NIRSpec filters we have added a position angle constraint.