---
id: 1233
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 6.5
program_title: "I Zw 18: Dust Life Cycle at Very Low Metallicity"
type: ""
---
# 1233 - I Zw 18: Dust Life Cycle at Very Low Metallicity
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1233
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label          | Observing Template | Science Target     |
| :------------- | :----------------- | :----------------- |
| I Zw 18 MIRI   | MIRI Imaging       | (1) I-ZW-18-MIRI   |
| I Zw 18 NIRCam | NIRCam Imaging     | (2) I-ZW-18-NIRCAM |

## ABSTRACT

JWST MIRI and NIRCam will be used to study the life cycle of dust in I Zw 18, in a manner comparable to Spitzer studies of the life cycle of dust in the Large and Small Magellanic clouds (e.g., Meixner et al. 2006; Gordon et al. 2011; Meixner et al. 2013). With the spatial resolution and sensitivity afforded by JWST, we will be able to study individual objects in the galaxy I Zw 18 that has an extremely low metallicity ([Fe/H] = - 1.9) and has been the subject of an HST study that detects both post-main sequence and young stars. Conditions in this galaxy are thought to be similar to high redshift galaxies and our study will shed light on the dust life cycle in the early universe. With NIRCam and MIRI, we will be able to study dusty objects, which were not seen by HST. Of particular interest are dust producers. Unlike our galaxy where low- and intermediate mass stars provide substantial dust via mass loss during the asymptotic giant branch (AGB), high redshift galaxies with known large dust content do not have time for stars with masses below 5 solar masses to evolve onto the AGB and produce dust. Recent works show that supernova can produce substantial amount of dust but it is not clear if that will survive the passages of shocks. Hence studies of intermediate-mass and high-mass stars towards the end of their evolution may be keys to understanding dust formation in galaxies. The detection of the massive young stellar objects in I Zw 18 will provide insight into the formation of massive stars at low metallicity. Together with the star formation history determinations from HST and the dust mass measurements from the Spitzer Space Telescope and the Herschel Space Observatory, we will be able to construct a dust evolution model of this important galaxy.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We plan to use the MIRI/NIRCam parallel imaging mode as follows. NIRcam prime with filters F115W/F356W and F200W/F444W (SW/LW) and MIRI parallel (F1000W, F1500W). MIRI prime with filters F770W, F1000W, F1500W and F1800W and NIRCam parallel (F115W/F356W, F200W/F277W, F150W/F444W, F140M/F335M). These MIRI filter selections are guided by our study of predicted fluxes of dusty objects (Jones et al. 2017). The NIRCam filters are selected based on prior work on stellar populations at these wavelengths. The total time for the project (6 hours) will be equally split (3 hrs each) between the MIRI European Consortium (Justtanont lead) and Meixner's US MIRI Science team allocation.

We have been informed that the next APT version out in January will have extra charges for parallel observations, so we reserve the right to change the integration times due to these extra overheads.