---
id: 1234
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging  NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "Margaret Meixner"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 20.8
program_title: "NGC 6822: Dust Life Cycle Study of a Nearby Low Metallicity Galaxy"
type: ""
---
# 1234 - NGC 6822: Dust Life Cycle Study of a Nearby Low Metallicity Galaxy
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1234
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                             | Observing Template | Science Target                   |
| :-------------------------------- | :----------------- | :------------------------------- |
| NGC 6822 NIRCam                   | NIRCam Imaging     | (3) NGC-6822-NIRCAM              |
| NGC 6822 NIRCam Copy of Tile-1    | NIRCam Imaging     | (6) NGC-6822-NIRCAM-TILE-1       |
| NGC 6822 MIRI                     | MIRI Imaging       | (2) NGC-6822-MIRI                |
| NGC 6822 MIRI Split off Tile-2    | MIRI Imaging       | (5) NGC-6822-MIRI-TILE-2-COPY    |

---

## ABSTRACT

JWST MIRI and NIRCam will be used to study the life cycle of dust in NGC 6822, in a manner comparable to Spitzer studies of the life cycle of dust in the Large and Small Magellanic clouds (e.g., Meixner et al. 2006; Gordon et al. 2011; Meixner et al. 2013), and I Zw 18. With the spatial resolution and sensitivity afforded by JWST, we will be able to study individual objects in the galaxy NGC 6822 which has a metallicity ([Fe/H] = - 1.2) comparable to that of the SMC. NGC 6822 has been the subject of an HST and ALMA study that detects both post-main sequence and young stars. Conditions in this galaxy are thought to be similar to galaxies at the peak star formation epoch in the Universe and our study will shed light on the dust life cycle in the early universe. With NIRCam and MIRI, we will be able to study dusty objects, which were not detected by HST. Of particular interest are dust producers. Unlike our galaxy where low- and intermediate mass stars provide substantial dust via mass loss during the asymptotic giant branch (AGB), high redshift galaxies with known large dust content do not have time for stars with masses below 5 solar masses to evolve onto the AGB and produce dust. Recent works show that supernova can produce substantial amount of dust but it is not clear if that will survive the passages of shocks. Hence studies of intermediate-mass and high-mass stars towards the end of their evolution may be key to understanding dust formation in galaxies. NGC 6822 has the brightest HII regions in the nearby universe. The detection of the massive young stellar objects in NGC 6822 will provide insight into the formation of massive stars at low metallicity. Together with the star formation history determinations from HST and the dust mass measurements from the Herschel Space Observatory, we will be able to construct a dust evolution model of this important galaxy.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

NIRCam & MIRI imaging of NGC 6822

We plan to use the MIRI/NIRCam with parallel imaging mode as follows: NIRcam prime with filters F115W/F356W and F200W/F444W (SW/LW) and MIRI parallel (F1000W, F1500W). MIRI prime with filters F770W, F1000W, F1500W and F2100W and NIRCam parallel (F115W/F356W, F150W /F444W, F200W /F277W, F150W, F140M /F335M). These MIRI filter selections are guided by our study of predicted fluxes of dusty objects (Jones et al. 2017). The NIRCam filters are selected based on prior work on stellar populations and theoretical models convolved with the NIRcam filters.

The depths for the integration were to reach magnitudes of 19.4 at 7.7 microns, 14.4 at 21 microns, and 22.4 at 3.56 microns [vegamags] to match a comparable depth in NGC 6822 as the SAGE project did in the Large and Small Magellanic Clouds. The wavelengths at 3.56 and 7.77 reach below the tip of the red giant branch, and at 21 microns reaches the most massive young stellar objects in this galaxy.