---
id: 1236
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "Michael Ressler"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 12.7
program_title: "Protostellar Binaries"
type: ""
---
# 1236 - Protostellar Binaries
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1236
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
1.  **List of the Labels, the corresponding Observing Template and the Science Targets:**

    **OBSERVATIONS**

    | Folder Observation | Label          | Observing Template                     | Science Target          |
    | :----------------- | :------------- | :------------------------------------- | :---------------------- |
    | Perseus            | L1448IRS1      | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (1) L1448IRS1           |
    |                    | Emb 22         | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (2) PER-EMB-22          |
    |                    | Emb 33         | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (3) PER-EMB-33          |
    |                    | Background     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (4) PER-BACKGROUND      |
    |                    | Emb 35         | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (5) PER-EMB-35          |
    |                    | ASR 106        | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (6) EDJ2009-183         |
    |                    | Emb 27         | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (7) PER-EMB-27          |
    |                    | Emb 12         | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (8) PER-EMB-12          |
    |                    | Emb 11         | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (9) PER-EMB-11          |
    |                    | Emb 55         | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (10) PER-EMB-55         |
    | rho Oph            | WL 20          | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (11) WL20               |

## ABSTRACT

    We will observe a small sample of protostellar binaries primarily in the Perseus star forming region and one in the rho Oph cloud with the MIRI spectrometer to gain new insights into the formation and composition of these youngest stellar systems. We have selected known binaries with separations from 0.6 to 3.2 arcseconds, wide enough to be resolved over a reasonable wavelength range, but close enough to be observed in a single pointing.
    For each source, spectra with all three grating positions will be obtained, with a 2-point dither for each. Spatial reconstruction is not important (thus 4-point dithers is not necessary); our chief concern is filling in bad pixels and CR removal. There is one dedicated background region that will be used to subtract the background from all targets. The simultaneous images are primarily for precisely locating our targets, not for science per se; the image overlap warnings are thus not important.
    There is one uninterrupable sequence of objects in Perseus in order in order to make best use of a designated background target. See the Observations comment boxes. Because these sources are binaries where it is not trivial to optimize the position of both on the IFU and because of the significant amount of nebulosity surrounding these sources, we prefer to not do a target acquisition before each source. Current pointing models indicate that the blind pointing capability is 0.1", more than adequate to ensure our binaries are within the MRS FOV.
    This program is being done in conjunction with Perseus observations by Ewine van Dishoeck (MIRI EC, PID 1290) and her team.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

    Recent millimeter surveys of young, Class 0, protostars reveal that nearly 2/3 are in binary/multiple systems (e.g. Chen et al., 2013; Tobin et al., 2016a). This high observed multiplicity frequency suggests that most stars are born as binaries or multiples. The formation of multiple systems is thought to arise from three mechanisms (summarized in Tobin et al.): 1) turbulent fragmentation of the parent molecular cloud; 2) thermal fragmentation of a strongly perturbed, rotating, and infalling core; and 3) fragmentation of a gravitationally unstable circumstellar disk. Processes 1 and 2 will lead to systems with separations of hundreds to thousands of AU, while the third will produce separations of hundreds of AU or less.
    We will observe a small sample of protostellar binaries (Class 0 and I young stellar objects) in the Perseus star forming region along with one prototypical triple system in rho Oph with the MIRI spectrometer to gain new insights into the formation and composition of these youngest stellar systems. The sources we have chosen are known binaries (or triples) from the Tobin et al. lists (i.e. Tables 3 and 4), with separations from 0.5" to 3.2" so that they are resolvable by the MIRI MRS yet still fit within a single MRS field-of-view. These object separations also bridge the transition between the first two formation processes and the third, which is of order 1"-2" at the 230 pc distance to Perseus. A spectacular example is the ALMA image of the hierarchical triple system of L1448 IRS3B (Tobin et al. 2016b). While we are unlikely to resolve the closer pair (at 0.27", 61 AU, separation), we will be able to separate the tertiary, 0.8" (183 AU) away, and perhaps obtain information on the dust spirals intertwining the entire system. Some of the issues we hope to address with these spatially-resolved mid-infrared spectra include: the evolutionary state of each member of the pair; differences in extinction and accretion markers between the members; the composition of the circumbinary disk; the prevalence of ices in these systems; and the energetics of these systems---even though MIRI's formal spectral resolution is of order 100 km s-1, we should be able to see Doppler shifts that are ~ < 10 km s-1 in isolated lines. While this study stands on its own, it is also being undertaken as a part of a larger, coordinated effort to characterize the protostellar population of the Perseus star forming region.