---
id: 1237
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 8.4
program_title: "Star Formation in the Extreme Outer Galaxy"
type: ""
---
# 1237 - Star Formation in the Extreme Outer Galaxy
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1237
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label              | Observing Template | Science Target    |
| :----------------- | :----------------- | :---------------- |
| DC2-S-NIRCAM-N-MIRI | NIRCam Imaging     | (2) DIGELC2-S     |
| DC2-N-NIRCAM       | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) DIGELC2-N     |
| DC2-S-MIRI         | MIRI Imaging       | (2) DIGELC2-S     |
| DC1-A-NIRCAM       | NIRCam Imaging     | (3) DIGELC1-A     |
| DC1-A-MIRI         | MIRI Imaging       | (3) DIGELC1-A     |
| DC1-B-MIRI         | MIRI Imaging       | (4) DIGELC1-B     |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose MIRI/NIRCam imaging (wavelengths from 1.15 to 21 µm) of several star-forming clusters in the distant Digel Cloud 1 and Digel Cloud 2. We will use the imaging data to build broad spectral energy distributions for all the cluster members in order to estimate their mass, luminosity, and evolutionary status. These star forming regions lie at a Galactocentric radius > 18 kpc, and so will allow us to study star formation activity within low metalicity and gas density environments similar to those in the Magellanic Clouds and other nearby dwarf galaxies. We expect to detect sources down to 8 MJup and to distinguish whether stars down to 0.5 Msun still have circumstellar disks.
Digel 2 has two star forming clusters approximately 8' apart, very close to the separation between MIRI's and NIRCam's fields-of-view. We will take advantage of parallel MIRI/NIRCam observations to obtain MIRI images of the northern cluster while NIRCam will be gathering data on Digel 2S. Unfortunately, JWST cannot achieve a 180 degree opposite roll angle 6 months later, so we slew to 2S to get MIRI alone, then 2N to get NIRCam alone, all in the same epoch. For Digel 1, which also has two nearby clusters, we concentrate on cluster 1A, getting both MIRI and NIRCam images, while still getting MIRI imaging on cluster 1B.
For all targets (except DC1-B), we expect to get three wavelengths in each of the following combinations:
F115W - F356W - F770W
F150W - F440W - F1280W
F200W - F405N+F444W - F2100W
The parallel observations of DC2 have strict constraints on the positions angle of the observations in order that the two pairs of clusters are covered by their respective instruments at the time.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The extreme outer Galaxy (EOG), which we define as the region with a Galactocentric radius (Rg) of >=18 kpc, has a very different environment from the Solar neighborhood, since it has a much lower gas density, lower metallicity (~ 1 dex), and little perturbation from the spiral arms. The environment is similar to that of nearby dwarf galaxies, damped Lyman-alpha systems, and the early stage of the formation of the Galactic disk. Because of its relative proximity, compared to nearby dwarf galaxies such as the LMC and SMC (about 10 kpc vs. 50 kpc), the EOG serves as an ideal "laboratory” in which to study the details of the star formation process in such environments (Kobayashi et al., 2008).

In near-infrared (NIR) surveys of the EOG, we have found active star formation occurring in Digel Cloud 1 (DC1; Izumi et al. 2014) and Cloud 2 (DC2, Kobayashi & Tokunaga 2000), which are two of the most distant known regions with a Rg ~> 20 kpc. Based on the position of the star-forming clusters with respect to local CO, MIR, H I, and radio continuum peaks and ridges, we have suggested that the DC1 clusters may have been triggered by high-velocity cloud accretion onto the Galactic disk, while the DC2 clusters may have been triggered by a supernova event. For the two clusters in DC2, we found that the initial mass function (IMF) is consistent with that in the Solar neighborhood in terms of the high-mass slope and IMF peak (Yasui et al., 2008a,b). However, we also found that the fraction of stars with a K-band excess (which originates from the inner circumstellar dust disk at radii of r <= 0.1 AU) is significantly lower than that in the Solar neighborhood, suggesting a metallicity dependence of disk lifetimes (Yasui et al., 2009). We propose MIRI/NIRCAM imaging (1.15 - 21 µm) of DC1 and DC2 at the locations of several candidate star-forming clusters (Izumi et al., 2017). We expect to detect sources down to 8 MJup and to distinguish whether stars down to 0.5 Msun still have disks. The sensitivity and spatial resolution of JWST will enable us to study star- and planet-forming processes in the EOG at the same depth as the Solar neighborhood for the first time. Specifically, we will use the NIR and MIR data to classify the evolutionary stages of YSOs (Class 0–III; e. g., Fischer et al. 2016) and reveal their spatial distribution. The many additional YSOs we expect to detect will help to clarify the relationship of DC1 and DC2 with their surrounding environment and to suggest possible formation mechanisms. The new YSOs will allow us to also derive the IMF in this low metallicity environment down to the very low-mass end (<0.1 Msun), which is suggested to be a sensitive function of the formation environment and initial conditions (Lada & Lada, 2003). This will be the first study of brown dwarfs and planetary mass objects in low-metallicity environments and will enable us to investigate whether they are common in such environments. And lastly, we will gain new insights into the outer (~ 0.1 - 5 AU) circumstellar disk evolution. Given that we may detect up to 150 cluster members, this will allow us to quantitatively compare the disk lifetimes in low-metallicity regions with those in the Solar neighborhood that have been extensively characterized by Spitzer. This metallicity relationship has implications for the planet formation probability which may have evolved over the lifetime of our Galaxy.