---
id: 1238
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 9.9
program_title: "Sparse Spectral Mapping of NGC 1514"
type: ""
---
# 1238 - Sparse Spectral Mapping of NGC 1514
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1238
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label              | Observing Template                  | Science Target                |
| :----------------- | :---------------------------------- | :---------------------------- |
| Rings-5-W          | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (17) NGC-1514-RINGS5-W        |
| Shell-2-NW         | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (19) NGC-1514-SHELL2-NW       |
| Equator-SW         | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (11) NGC-1514-EQUATOR-SW      |
| CSPN               | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (12) NGC-1514-CSPN            |
| Rings-1-NE         | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (13) NGC-1514-RINGS1-NE       |
| Shell-1-SE         | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (18) NGC-1514-SHELL1-SE       |
| Rings-2-SSE        | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (14) NGC-1514-RINGS2-SSE      |
| Background-1-SSW   | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (21) NGC-1514-BKGND1-SSW      |
| Rings-3-S          | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (15) NGC-1514-RINGS3-S        |
| Rings-4-SW         | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (16) NGC-1514-RINGS4-SW       |
| Background-2-SW    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (22) NGC-1514-BKGND2-SW       |
| Image1-BKGND       | MIRI Imaging                        | (1) NGC-1514-IMAGE-BKGNG      |

---

## ABSTRACT

We wish to obtain simultaneous MIRI imaging and spectroscopy on the 3-arcminute-diameter planetary nebula NGC 1514. The primary science driver is the spectroscopy of nine specially selected areas of the nebula that will be used to gain information on the temperature, composition, and kinematics of the rings, comparing them against the properties of the more classical, optically visible nebula. However, we also wish to obtain serendipitous imaging on a best effort basis. The imaging will help us better understand the structure of the nebula as well as understand what is filling the MRS field of view since the best mid-infrared images of NGC 1514 are from the WISE all-sky survey which has a spatial resolution roughly equal to the MRS FOV. Our intent is to get images at 3 different wavelengths --- 7.7, 12.8, and 25.5 μm one for each of the 3 grating positions.

If we require the V3 position angle to be 258° ± 1°, we can build a very interesting mapping of nearly all of the nebula with the target positions we have chosen. (Angles a bit farther off are also acceptable, but 258 seems to be optimal angle for getting our spectral positions while maximizing the imaging coverage.) We therefore require a V3PA of 257° to 259° for the first target (the imager background field), then require all targets to have a same PA link. The background field lies a few arcminutes away from the nebula and will be used for background subtraction for all the subsequent images. We require the observations to be taken within a 24 hr window in order to best preserve the position angle for each image for the map reconstruction and well as make best use of non-changing conditions in the background spectra.

Because these spectral pointings are entirely within nebulosity, we will not do a target acquisitions at any point; the blind pointing capability of JWST is entirely adequate. While the imaging strategy (including the background field) will leave us with somewhat "dirty" images (essentially single image per position), they will be adequate to help us understand the finer structure of the nebula.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Observations of the planetary nebula (PN) now known as NGC 1514 convinced William Herschel that not all nebulous sources he observed could be resolved into clusters of stars as he had thought; some were indeed surrounded by a "shining fluid” (Herschel, 1791). In modern terms, NGC 1514 is a moderately high excitation PN in Taurus, whose central source has recently been proven to be a binary star with a 9.1 yr period (Jones et al., 2017), the longest period measured spectroscopically for any PN, which only adds to the mystery of the evolutionary status of the pair (e.g. Aller et al., 2015). The overall appearance of the nebula at visible wavelengths is that of a round, lumpy, double-shelled PN composed of numerous small bubbles (Chu et al., 1987; Hajian et al., 1997). However, the WISE survey showed that it is surrounded by two large axisymmetric rings (Ressler et al., 2010). While other planetary and symbiotic nebulae have similar looking structures at visible wavelengths (e. g. MyCn 18, Hen 2-104, Abell 14), NGC 1514 is unique in that the rings are brightly visible only in the mid-infrared. A survey of all 3000+ PN in the HASH PN database (http://hashpn.space) using the WISE image catalog service showed no other resolved sources with a similar infrared ring structure.

We wish to understand the nature of these rings. What is the composition of the rings? How does it compare to the inner shell? An expansion velocity of 23 km s-1 was measured in the inner shell by Muthu & Anandarao (2003); can we measure similar velocities in the rings? Because of the large spatial extent of the nebula, ~ 3 arcminutes in diameter, we will obtain MIRI MRS spectra at 9 locations on the nebula itself, chosen to sample important features: on the central source, on two of the brighter bubbles in the inner shell, on the equatorial plane, and on several locations around the rings; we will also measure two positions on the background to the south of the nebula. Furthermore, despite the offset between the MIRI imager and the MRS fields-of-view, we can take advantage of the nebula's size to perform simultaneous imaging that will cover nearly all of the nebula. These images will give us more than 15 times the spatial resolution of WISE. The imaging data will allow better understanding of the relationship between the rings and the inner and outer shells; additionally, it will enable determination of the precise location of the MRS data in relation to the larger scale nebular features.

References:
Aller A., Montesinos, B., Miranda, L. F., Solano, E., & Ulla, A. 2015, MNRAS, 448, 2822
Chu, Y.-H., Jacoby, G. H., & Arendt, R. 1987, ApJS, 64, 529
Hajian, A. R., Frank, A., Balick, B., & Terzian, Y. 1997, ApJ, 477, 226
Herschel, W. 1791, Phil. Trans., 81, 71
Jones, D., Van Winckel, H., Aller, A., et al. 2017, A&A Lett., 600, L9
Muthu, C. & Anandarao, B. G. 2003, AJ, 126, 2963
Ressler, M. E., Cohen, M., Wachter, S., et al. 2010, AJ, 140, 1882