---
id: 1239
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "Michael Ressler"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 8.6
program_title: "Investigating Dusty Disks in Evolved Stars"
type: ""
---
# 1239 - Investigating Dusty Disks in Evolved Stars
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1239
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                       | Observing Template                 | Science Target              |
| :-------------------------- | :--------------------------------- | :-------------------------- |
| NGC-7293                    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) NGC-7293                |
| NGC-7293 - Repeat of observation 1 | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) NGC-7293                |
| NGC-6804                    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) NGC-6804                |
| ZZ-PSC                      | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) V-ZZ-PSC                |
| J4629                       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) J004629.29-731552.3     |
| J4616                       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (5) J004614.67-723519.0     |
| J0439                       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (6) J043919.30-685733.4     |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose to investigate the mysterious mid-infrared dust excesses that have been found around post-AGB stars that are the end products of low and intermediate mass stars (1–8 Msun). These dust excesses are believed to be produced by a dusty disk around the star. The presence of such dusty disks during these late evolutionary stages is not expected, and so to understand the mechanisms that can produce such disks, we wish to characterize the disk structure, mass, temperature, and composition for a small but representative selection of such sources.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will obtain MIRI MRS spectroscopy for 6 such sources. For each source, we will obtain 2-point dithered exposures, whose lengths have been chosen to obtain a SNR > 10 at all wavelengths (5 to 25 µm) where possible. (Short wavelengths, < 10 µm, for NGC 7293 and J043919.30-685733.4 will violate this rule.) There are no special requirements placed on any of these observations.

**OBSERVING DESCRIPTION**
We propose to investigate the mysterious mid-infrared dust excesses that have been found around post-AGB stars that are the end products of low and intermediate mass stars (1–8 Msun). These dust excesses are believed to be produced by a dusty disk around the star. The presence of such dusty disks during these late evolutionary stages is unexpected. To understand the mechanisms that can produce such disks, it is important to characterize the disk structure, mass, temperature, and composition.

1. Disks around White Dwarfs: The search for planets or planetary systems around stars other than our Sun is one of the most exciting quests in recent times. Two types of dust disks have been discovered around white dwarfs (WDs): the first are large dust disks around the hot WDs at the centers of planetary nebulae (PNe), that extend to radial distances of 10–100 AU. A comprehensive study of such disks was attempted using Spitzer images of 72 PNe with IRAC and MIPS by Bilíková et al. (2012), who identified a list of 8 objects where the IR excess is likely to be due to an extended dust cloud, e.g., a disk. The second type are small disks of material that orbit “naked” or cool WDs and exhibit 10 µm silicate emission features (Jura et al., 2009; those authors propose that micron-size glassy “olivine” grains can account for the feature’s broad wings, and that these particles likely result from tidal disruption of asteroids. However, the limited angular resolution of Spitzer makes removal of nebular contamination uncertain in the case of the hot WDs (and no spectra are available), and in the cool WD case, the spectra are of low S/N. JWST will allow us to address both issues, even for a small sample of sources.
2. Young Disks resulting from common-envelope ejection in Red Giants: The evolution of very luminous (L ~ 6000 Lsun) AGB stars is controlled by heavy mass-loss via dusty winds, thus mid-IR excesses are to be expected. However, a class of lower luminosity, post-RGB stars (L <~ 1000 Lsun) that also exhibit dust excesses have recently been identified in the LMC and SMC using Spitzer photometry (Kamath et al., 2016). For these stars, strong interactions with a compact binary companion during the RGB phase is believed to remove most of the primary’s stellar envelope, but with a significant fraction of the ejecta still residing in a disk. We propose to use JWST/MIRI to obtain high S/N spectra of a small sample of post-RGB stars in the LMC and SMC that will enable us to characterize the properties of the disks and their dust compositions.