---
id: 1240
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: "MIRI/LRS  NIRSpec/FS and IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "Michael Ressler"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 6.6
program_title: "De-mystifying SPRITEs with JWST"
type: ""
---
# 1240 - De-mystifying SPRITEs with JWST
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1240
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label      | Observing Template             | Science Target               |
|------------|--------------------------------|------------------------------|
| LRS        | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (8) AT2019ABN-MIRI-COORDS    |
| NIRSPEC-FS | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (1) AT2019ABN-NIRSPEC-COORDS |
| LRS        | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) WISETRANSIENT            |
| NIRSPEC-FS | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (2) WISETRANSIENT            |
| LRS        | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) SPIRITS18NU              |
| NIRSPEC    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy       | (3) SPIRITS18NU              |

## ABSTRACT

We will perform three non-disruptive ToO follow-up observations with MIRI and NIRSpec of unusual IR-luminous transients detected by Spitzer in our Spitzer Infrared Intensive Transients Survey (SPIRITS). Our focus is on characterizing the origins of the SPIRITS-discovered SPRITES: eSPecially Red Intermediate-luminosity Transient Events. These IR-luminous transients are exceptionally red and show only very weak or short-lived optical counterparts, if any. The diversity of their mid-IR light curves implies that SPRITEs represent a mix of different physical origins including luminous blue variable outbursts, stellar mergers, and obscured supernovae (Kasliwal et al. 2017; Jencson et al. 2019).

This proposal has ToO status.

The 3 ToOs in this program will be selected using the following criteria (all magnitudes are on the Vega system):

• Target detected in the SPIRITS program with at least two positive detections.
Rationale: The SPIRITS program operated from 2014 until the end of the Spitzer mission in Jan 2020. We require at least two epochs of positive detections to provide a temporal baseline to extrapolate and predict the expected mid-IR brightness at the time of JWST follow-up.

• Peak absolute magnitude at 3.6 or 4.5 µm brighter than -11, OR with a light curve duration > 1 yr.
Rationale: This requirement is necessary to distinguish SPRITEs from classical novae. The brightness indicated is the highest absolute magnitude in the mid-IR that can be achieved by dusty classical novae without exceeding their Eddington limit. Since novae fade within ~ 6 months, the light curve duration adds another constraint to exclude novae.

• Predicted 4.5 µm magnitude brighter than 18 (10 µJy) at time of trigger.
Rationale: In order to obtain a robust >= 10 sigma detection with our requested exposure times and observing modes, we require the SPRITE to exhibit a 4.5 µm flux of >= 10 µJy. The SPRITE flux/magnitude will be predicted based on extrapolations of the evolution of the mid-IR light curve.

Target Prioritization: High priority SPRITEs for ToO triggering will exhibit red [3.6]-[4.5] colors and high luminosities. Priority will also be given to targets with pre- or post-explosion counterpart imaging from the Hubble Space Telescope.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The dynamic infrared (IR) sky has been explored extensively by the Spitzer Space Telescope. By searching 200 nearby galaxies, the Spitzer Infrared Intensive Transient Survey (SPIRITS) found 37 unusual infrared transients, with no optical counterparts whatsoever, dubbed SPRITEs (eSPecially Red Intermediate Luminosity Red Transients, Kasliwal et al., 2017). SPRITEs are much redder than both novae (e.g. Nova Cygni 1975; Gallagher & Ney 1976) and supernovae (e.g. SN2011dh and SN2014J; Johansson et al. 2017; Helou et al. 2013), while the optical upper limits may make them comparable to late-stage Luminous Red Novae (LRNs; e.g. M101OT; Blagorod-nova et al. 2017) and Intermediate-Luminosity Red Transients (ILRTs; e.g. SN2008S; Adams et al. 2016). With infrared luminosities between novae and supernovae, SPRITEs are found to occur in grand spiral galaxies. These transients cannot be classical novae as their infrared luminosities are much higher than Eddington. SPRITEs may represent diverse physical origins including 1) the birth of massive binaries that drive shocks in their molecular cloud (Kasliwal et al., 2017), 2) stellar mergers with dusty winds (Smith et al., 2016; Blagorodnova et al., 2017; Pejcha et al., 2016), 3) 8–10 Msun stars experiencing e-capture induced collapse in their cores (Kochanek et al., 2014; Prieto et al., 2008), or 4) birth of stellar mass black holes (Adams et al., 2016; Lovegrove & Woosley, 2013). SPIRITS revealed that the infrared sky is not only as dynamic as the optical sky; it also provided access to unique and complementary signatures of stellar astrophysics.

The key to disentangling the various possible physical origins of the new discoveries and deciphering the astrophysics and astrochemistry is IR spectroscopy. Due to the sensitivity limitations imposed by Earth's atmosphere, SPRITEs have been too faint to detect from ground-based IR observatories. We therefore require the unprecedented IR sensitivity of MIRI and NIRSPEC on JWST to obtain the first detections and IR spectra at wavelengths > 4.5 µm of these mysterious transients. In addition to detecting diagnostic IR emission and absorption lines, the spectra would reveal: 1) the composition of the emitting dust (e.g., silicate or carbonaceous grains), 2) the total emitting dust mass, and thus the overall mass of the circumstellar medium, and 3) the integrated IR luminosity, and thus the luminosity of the heating source.

References:
Adams, S. M., Kochanek, C. S., Prieto, J. L., et al. 2016, MNRAS, 460, 1645
Blagorodnova, N., Kotak, R., Polshaw, J., et al. 2017, ApJ, 834, 107
Gallagher, J. S., & Ney, E. P. 1976, ApJL, 204, L35
Helou, G., Kasliwal, M. M., Ofek, E. O., et al. 2013, ApJL, 778, L19
Jencson, J. E., Kasliwal, M. M., Adams, S. M., et al. 2019, ApJ, 886, 40
Johansson, J., Goobar, A., Kasliwal, M. M., et al. 2017, MNRAS, 466, 3442
Kasliwal, M. M., Bally, J., Masci, F., et al. 2017, arXiv:1701.01151
Kochanek, C. S., Adams, S. M., & Belczynski, K. 2014, MNRAS, 443, 1319
Lovegrove, E. & Woosley, S. E. 2013, ApJ, 769, 109
Pejcha, O., Metzger, B. D., & Tomida, K. 2016, MNRAS, 455, 4351
Prieto, J. L., Kistler, M. D., Thompson, T. A., et al. 2008, ApJL, 681, L9
Smith, N., Andrews, J. E., Van Dyk, S. D., et al. 2016, MNRAS, 458, 950