---
id: 1242
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: "NIRISS/AMI"
pi_and_co_pis: "Doug Johnstone"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 16.5
program_title: "Planets in Formation and Exozodiacal Disks"
type: ""
---
# 1242 - Planets in Formation and Exozodiacal Disks
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1242
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                  | Observing Template                 | Science Target       |
| :--------------------- | :--------------------------------- | :------------------- |
| TD HD 100546           | NIRISS Aperture Masking Interferometry | (2) TD-HD-100546     |
| TD-CAL-HD-101531       | NIRISS Aperture Masking Interferometry | (6) TD-CAL-HD-101531 |
| TD HD 135344B          | NIRISS Aperture Masking Interferometry | (3) TD-HD-135344B    |
| TD-CAL-HD-123991       | NIRISS Aperture Masking Interferometry | (5) TD-CAL-HD-123991 |
| TD-PDS-70              | NIRISS Aperture Masking Interferometry | (1) TD-PDS-70        |
| NU-HOR                 | NIRISS Aperture Masking Interferometry | (12) NU-HOR          |
| HD 18638               | NIRISS Aperture Masking Interferometry | (13) HD-18638        |

---

## ABSTRACT

This is a joint NIRISS AMI GTO programme consisting of "Planes in Formation Around Young Stars: NIRISS AMI Observations of Transition Disk Systems" led by Doug Johnstone and "Exozodiacal Disks: A Theatre for Planetary Gravitational Shadow Plays" led by Peter Tuthill.
We aim to observe planets in formation around young stars using NIRISS AMI at thermal infrared wavelengths. We focus on Transition Disk systems, in which the natal protoplanetary disk around the young star shows evidence of disruption and gap formation. Such a scenario is expected when a forming planet is dynamically clearing its local environment. We aim to show that planet formation is ubiquitous in Transition Disk systems and that it is responsible for carving the observed large inner cavities. Each detected, and categorized, planet will provide a unique proving ground for theorists modeling disk and planet evolution, disk dispersal, and planet migration. We will observe three transition disk sources: PDS70, HD 100546, and HD 135344B.
Halos of dust and debris are believed ubiquitous in most circumstellar environments. Even a relatively tenuous structure such as our solar system's zodiacal dust emits more radiation across the optical and infrared than all the planets combined. Our lack of knowledge of the prevalence of exozodiacal disks, and particularly the exozodiacal light they emit, remains an outstanding problem in designing future missions targeting spatially resolved imagery of exoplanets. The proposed observational campaign will establish NIRISS/AMI as the first platform to comprehensively address this critical observational blind spot. Furthermore, at the sensitivities available to JWST, the flux from bright exo-zodiacal disks can be used to prospect for signatures of embedded planets. Gravitational shepherding of the dust by any orbiting massive bodies will reveal telltale signatures that are orders of magnitude larger, and easier to detect, than the bodies themselves. To demonstrate the unique science reach for NIRISS/AMI in exo-zodiacal studies, we will observe the prominent debris system nu Hor, providing a secure detection and prospects for imaging any substructures present. Note that only nu Hor and its calibrator are still to be observed.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This is a joint NIRISS AMI GTO programme consisting of "Planets in Formation Around Young Stars: NIRISS AMI Observations of Transition Disk Systems" led by Doug Johnstone and "Exozodiacal Disks: A Theatre for Planetary Gravitational Shadow Plays" led by Peter Tuthill.
[Note there is also an attached MIRI observation of ETA CRV using Christine Chen's GTO time.]
We aim to observe planets in formation around young stars using NIRISS AMI at thermal infrared wavelengths. We focus on Transition Disk systems, in which the natal protoplanetary disk around the young star shows evidence of disruption and gap formation. Such a scenario is expected when a forming planet is dynamically clearing its local environment. We aim to show that planet formation is ubiquitous in Transition Disk systems and that it is responsible for carving the observed large inner cavities. Each detected, and categorized, planet will provide a unique proving ground for theorists modeling disk and planet evolution, disk dispersal, and planet migration. We will observe three transition disk sources: PDS 70, HD 100546, and HD 135344B.
Halos of dust and debris are believed ubiquitous in most circumstellar environments. Even a relatively tenuous structure such as our solar system's zodiacal dust emits more radiation across the optical and infrared than all the planets combined. Our lack of knowledge of the prevalence of exozodiacal disks, and particularly the exozodiacal light they emit, remains an outstanding problem in designing future missions targeting spatially resolved imagery of exoplanets. The proposed observational campaign will establish NIRISS/AMI as the first platform to comprehensively address this critical observational blind spot. Furthermore, at the sensitivities available to JWST, the flux from bright exo-zodiacal disks can be used to prospect for signatures of embedded planets. Gravitational shepherding of the dust by any orbiting massive bodies will reveal telltale signatures that are orders of magnitude larger, and easier to detect, than the bodies themselves. To demonstrate the unique science reach for NIRISS/AMI in exo-zodiacal studies, we will observe the prominent debris system eta Crv, providing a secure detection and prospects for imaging any substructures present.