---
id: 1245
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS  NIRCam/Imaging  NIRSpec/FS"
pi_and_co_pis: "Cristina Thomas"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 23.4
program_title: "Near-Earth Objects"
type: ""
---
# 1245 - Near-Earth Objects
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1245
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                          | Observing Template                   | Science Target           |
| :----------------------------- | :----------------------------------- | :----------------------- |
| Phaethon/NIRSpec               | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy      | (1) PHAETHON             |
| Phaethon/MIRI                  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy  | (1) PHAETHON             |
| Phaethon/NIRCam                | NIRCam Imaging                       | (1) PHAETHON             |
| Fixed Pointing                 | Pointing Only                        | (4) NEAR-DIDYMOS         |
| Didymos/NIRCam                 | NIRCam Imaging                       | (2) DIDYMOS              |
| Didymos/NIRCam                 | NIRCam Imaging                       | (2) DIDYMOS              |
| Didymos/NIRCam                 | NIRCam Imaging                       | (2) DIDYMOS              |
| Didymos/NIRCam                 | NIRCam Imaging                       | (2) DIDYMOS              |
| Didymos/NIRCam                 | NIRCam Imaging                       | (2) DIDYMOS              |
| Didymos/NIRCam                 | NIRCam Imaging                       | (2) DIDYMOS              |
| Didymos/NIRCam                 | NIRCam Imaging                       | (2) DIDYMOS              |
| Didymos/NIRCam                 | NIRCam Imaging                       | (2) DIDYMOS              |
| Didymos/NIRCam                 | NIRCam Imaging                       | (2) DIDYMOS              |
| Didymos/NIRCam                 | NIRCam Imaging                       | (2) DIDYMOS              |
| Didymos/NIRCam                 | NIRCam Imaging                       | (2) DIDYMOS              |
| Didymos/NIRCam                 | NIRCam Imaging                       | (2) DIDYMOS              |
| Didymos/NIRSpec                | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy      | (2) DIDYMOS              |
| Didymos/MIRI                   | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy  | (2) DIDYMOS              |
| Didymos/MIRI Background        | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy  | (3) DIDYMOS-BACKGROUND   |
| Didymos/NIRCam                 | NIRCam Imaging                       | (2) DIDYMOS              |
| Didymos/NIRCam                 | NIRCam Imaging                       | (2) DIDYMOS              |

## ABSTRACT

Near-Earth Objects (NEOs) are of interest for various reasons, including their scientific significance and impact hazard mitigation. Though several recent missions have visited NEOs, most have lacked spectral capabilities in the wavelength regions covered by JWST. These observations will target two NEOs of particular interest, (3200) Phaethon and (65803) Didymos, which are the destinations of upcoming missions with limited or no infrared capabilities. The objects selected have different compositions, orbits, source regions, and sizes. Together they will help us understand the range of objects present in the near-Earth asteroid population. (3200) Phaethon is a B-type NEO with a perihelion well inside the orbit of Mercury and an orbit that links it to the Geminid meteor shower. Phaethon the only asteroid identified as a meteor shower parent body. It has shown activity in the past, but the nature of the activity is still unclear. Our observations will examine its composition (NIRSpec & MIRI) and search for activity (NIRCam). Phaethon is the target of the future JAXA DESTINY+ mission. (65803) Didymos is a binary S-type NEO that is the target of NASA's DART mission. NIRCam observations of Didymos will be timed to coincide with the DART impact into the secondary of the Didymos system in fall 2022. After the impact, we will observe the spectrum (NIRSpec & MIRI) and search for remaining dust (MIRI imaging). S-type asteroids are extremely common in near-Earth space, but few have spectral observations beyond 2.5 microns. Both targets have been well characterized from the ground and we have selected a number of JWST observing modes to best complement our current understanding of the objects.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will obtain observations of two near-Earth objects: (3200) Phaethon and (65803) Didymos. We will observe these targets in NIRCam, NIRSpec, and MIRI. For the spectral modes, we plan for signal-to-noise (SNR) > 75 for most wavelengths.

Of particular interest for our scientific case:
1.  NIRSpec. The 3 micron spectral region contains diagnostic absorption features of volatiles and organics. This region is very difficult to observe from the ground and observations in this region would add to our understanding of these objects.
2.  MIRI. Spitzer observations have shown that there are a number of spectral features of interest in the mid-infrared wavelength region. We investigate these features to determine additional constraints on composition and on regolith grain size.
3.  NIRCam. Phaethon has been shown to exhibit cometary-like activity. We use observations with selected NIRCam filters to investigate CO, CO2, H2O, and dust near the object. Didymos will be impacted by the DART spacecraft in fall 2022. We will use NIRCam to observe the ejecta from the impact.

For (3200) Phaethon, we use the observing windows of 2021 Dec 15 20:00 UT to 2022 Jan 26 23:00 UT and 2022 Aug 27 11:00 UT to 2022 Oct 13 10:00 UT. These dates are when the object is within the available elongation window of the observatory. The object does not exceed the nominal non-sidereal tracking limit. The V magnitude is V=17.44-18.02. The albedo is 0.1066 and the diameter is 5.1 km.

For (65803) Didymos, we have two observing sequences: during impact (Sept 30 2022) and after impact. For the impact observation, the non-sidereal rate of motion of the object will be in excess of the nominal limit. We will create an ephemeris file that tracks at maximum allowed rate and allow Didymos to move across the NIRCam field of view. For the second sequence, we use the observing window of 2022 Nov 6 07:00 UT to 2022 Dec 11 01:00 UT. The target is within the elongation windows during these dates and the rate of motion is below the nominal non-sidereal tracking limit. The V magnitude is V=16.15-16.23 and the target is ~0.1-0.2 AU from the observatory. The albedo is 0.15 and the diameter is 0.78 km.

The impact observations of Didymos (19:1 & 23:1) are a non-interruptible sequence to image the impact of the DART spacecraft at Didymos and the subsequent evolution of the impact ejecta. The non-sidereal motion of Didymos will be in excess of the JWST limits, so ephemerides will be calculated for each visit at the maximum rate of motion. These observations should be taken together so that we can best understand the evolution of the ejecta immeidately following the impact.