---
id: 1246
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "Leigh Fletcher"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 7
program_title: "Jupiter's Great Red Spot"
type: ""
---
# 1246 - Jupiter's Great Red Spot
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1246
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                  | Observing Template                 | Science Target       |
| :--------------------- | :--------------------------------- | :------------------- |
| Great Red Spot         | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) JUPITER-GRS      |
| Great Red Spot West    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) JUPITER-GRSWEST  |
| Great Red Spot East    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) JUPITER-GRSEAST  |
| MIRI Background        | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) BACKGROUND       |
| Great Red Spot         | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) JUPITER-GRS      |
| Great Red Spot West    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) JUPITER-GRSWEST  |
| Great Red Spot East    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) JUPITER-GRSEAST  |
| MIRI Background        | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) BACKGROUND       |

---

## ABSTRACT

Jupiter's extended disk and significant brightness present an extreme test for JWST capabilities. We will use MIRI/MRS spatio-spectral imaging to create a 3-point mosaic of the Great Red Spot (GRS) and its environs in the 6-11 µm range to determine the 3-dimensional temperature, composition, and aerosol distribution. We will explore moist convective activity surrounding the GRS via the ammonia, phosphine, and condensed ices detectable in this spectral range. We will also search spectra for chemical products that may be unique to the GRS region as a by-product of the production of the poorly-understood red chromophores. We will use methane emission to study stratospheric effects of the underlying GRS and moist-convective plumes.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Three-point mosaic of Jupiter's Great Red Spot and its environs in 5-11 µm (longer wavelengths will saturate).

Jupiter's angular size varies from 37-43" during FOR windows.

1.  **MOSAIC OF ROTATING TARGET:** Given the difficulties of specifying a true MIRI mosaic of a rotating target, we have specified three separate pointings (one for the GRS centre, one for the region to the east, and one for the west). These should be executed consecutively, or as close together in time as possible. Note that the GRS moves in longitude, so the precise longitudes of these three footprints can only be specified in the weeks prior to execution. The longitudes currently provided should be considered as dummy variables.

2.  **DITHER:** A 4-point dither has been assumed to optimise imaging quality across Channels 1-2, but as we hope to optimise over the full field of view, only small dither steps are required (large 1" dither steps would not work, as this would render only a small area of the FOV optimised). If the 2-point dither pattern turns out to be more suitable, we request to be able to make this change as it would increase the exposure time on target (reducing overheads).

3.  **GROUPS:** As some regions of the spectrum (particularly those beyond 11 µm) are likely to saturate in the second group, we have set ngroups=4 and used sufficient iterations to build up our signal-to-noise. For the brightest regions, this will allow us to subsample the exposure time to create sharper images (Jupiter's rotation will cause blur during the science exposures).

4.  **BACKGROUND:** A single background frame (an offset to sky, 90" away from Jupiter) should be acquired to characterize any anomalous slopes or contributions. This should be executed as near as possible to the science frames.

5.  **SCHEDULING:** We require the Great Red Spot (and the other longitudes of interest) to be near the central meridian of the planet during the observation. We attempted to use a Central Meridian target window constraint, but this prevented the visit planner from running correctly.

Outstanding Issues:
*   Consider change from 4 groups to 5 groups.
*   Update pointing information for GRS.
*   Link GRS observations to background.