---
id: 1247
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 20.1
program_title: "Saturn"
type: ""
---
# 1247 - Saturn
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1247
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                              | Observing Template                | Science Target          |
| :--------------------------------- | :-------------------------------- | :---------------------- |
| System NIRCam 1                    | NIRCam Imaging                    | (637) SATURN-CENTRE     |
| Pandora NIRSpec                    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy          | (617) PANDORA           |
| Epimetheus NIRSpec                 | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy          | (611) EPIMETHEUS        |
| Epimetheus NIRSpec Repeat of 314   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy          | (611) EPIMETHEUS        |
| Pallene NIRSpec                    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy          | (633) PALLENE           |
| Telesto NIRSpec                    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy          | (613) TELESTO           |
| System NIRCam 2                    | NIRCam Imaging                    | (637) SATURN-CENTRE     |
| Saturn Background MIRI             | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) SATURN-OFFSET       |
| Saturn Rings MIRI                  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (600) SATURN-RINGS      |
| Saturn North Pole MIRI             | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (634) SATURN-75N        |
| Saturn 45N MIRI                    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (635) SATURN-45N        |
| Saturn 15N MIRI                    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (636) SATURN-15N        |
| Saturn North Pole MIRI             | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (634) SATURN-75N        |

---

## ABSTRACT

Reconnaissance of the Saturn system with NIRCam will test the capacity of JWST to detect faint moons around bright planets, via comparison to the faint targets already detected by Cassini, which will be useful for ERS and GO observers of other planetary systems. Furthermore, the NIRCam images should be sensitive to discovering new moons significantly fainter than any that Cassini has discovered. Any such newly discovered moons would be important dynamical tracers of the current operations and past history of Saturn's planetary system. The NIRCam observations will also establish a baseline for continuing time-domain observations of the planet, rings, and satellites following the 2017 conclusion of the Cassini orbiter mission.

Deep spectra of selected small moons of Saturn (Epimetheus, Pandora, Pallene, and Telesto) with NIRSpec IFU will test the capacity of JWST to take deep spectra of faint targets near bright planets, which will be useful for ERS and GO observers of other planetary systems. The NIRSpec IFU spectra will enable cross-calibration with Cassini VIMS, and may improve on its signal-to-noise and spectral resolution (which would enable searches for finer spectral features).

Spectra of Saturn's main rings with MIRI MRS will test the capacity of JWST to take spatially resolved thermal spectra of icy ring systems, will enable cross-calibration with Cassini VIMS and CIRS, will fill a wavelength gap between those two instruments, and may improve on Cassini's signal-to-noise and spectral resolution.

A mosaic of Saturn's north polar region using MIRI spectro-spatial imaging (5-16 µm) will explore the continued evolution of the polar temperatures, aerosols, and composition, including (i) the expected growth of a wide, hot summer vortex in the stratosphere; (ii) variability within the polar cyclones associated with ammonia, phosphine and aerosols; and (iii) identification of any unique polar chemicals/haze species inaccessible to Cassini in the 5.5-7.5 µm region. These observations will establish a baseline for continuing time-domain observations of Saturn's seasonal atmosphere following the 2017 conclusion of the Cassini orbiter mission at northern summer solstice.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Observations of the Saturn system - its atmosphere, rings and satellites.

Notes:

1.  MIRI Saturn Scan: three overlapping footprints (based on the smallest MRS FOV) targetting the northern summer hemisphere. Top priority is a direct view of the northern summer pole and hexagon; secondary priority is to step along the prime meridian towards the equator. We originally intended for this to be a mosaic, but given that each MIRI disperser (SHORT/MEDIUM/LONG) would be seperated by too long for each tile, we had to specify each tile as a separate observation without interuption. The TORUS technique is used to ensure that the observations are pointing at the central meridian.

2.  MIRI Saturation: The SHORT detectors (Channel 1 and 2) only saturate with ngroups>4, so we have specified 4 groups. For the LONG detectors (Channels 3 and 4), saturation can only be avoided with 2 groups.

3.  MIRI dithering: A 4-point dither pattern has been used based on advice from STScI, but this should be optimised for image sampling in Channels 1 and 2, where the observations are least likely to saturate. If a the MIRI team assess that a 2-point dither would be preferred, then we request that this technique can be applied to increase the individual exposure times.

4.  MIRI background: A single background exposure will be performed 90" to the north of Saturn, ensuring that no planetary satellites are present within the field of view.

5.  Observations 301 (System NIRCam 1) and 341 (System NIRCam 2) would be best if a few hours apart. A natural way to do this is for the NIRSpec observations to be between them.

6.  We want Titan to be far out of the FOV for the NIRCam and MIRI observations, thus the Orbital Longitude constraints.

7.  We want all the bright moons to be at least 7 arcsec (in the case of Titan, 15 arcsec) from the FOV for the NIRSpec observations, thus the Separation constraints.