---
id: 1249
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 9
program_title: "Neptune"
type: ""
---
# 1249 - Neptune
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1249
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                  | Observing Template                 | Science Target          |
| :--------------------- | :--------------------------------- | :---------------------- |
| Neptune-Lon000         | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) NEPTUNE             |
| Neptune-Lon180         | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) NEPTUNE             |
| Neptune-Background     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) NEPTUNE-BACKGROUND  |
| NIRSPEC-Lon000         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy          | (1) NEPTUNE             |
| NIRSPEC-Lon180         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy          | (1) NEPTUNE             |
| NIRSPEC-Background     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy          | (4) NEPTUNE-BACKGROUND  |

## ABSTRACT

We propose to explore the middle atmospheric circulation of this archetypal ice giant world using spatially-resolved global maps of atmospheric temperatures and tracers of dynamics and chemistry (e.g., hydrocarbon species). With simultaneous multi-wavelength (5-29 m) spectral imaging, we will: (i) reveal the unusual environmental conditions within Neptune's summer south polar vortex; (ii) search for evidence of vertical coupling between tropospheric storm systems/wind fields and stratospheric dynamics; and (iii) search for evidence of tropical vertical oscillation patterns. JWST results for Neptune and Uranus will be intercompared to understand the similarities and differences between the two ice giants.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Neptune global spatial-spectral map using MIRI and NIRSPEC, sampling two opposite hemispheres of the planet, 180 degrees apart. Neptune rotates in 16 hours, 6 minutes. The time between adjacent observations should therefore be ~8 hours.

Notes:
1. SCHEDULING: Each longitude has been defined seperately to allow the visits to be seperated if necessary, but it makes most sense to execute all observations during one 16-hour rotation of Neptune, reducing the need for major slews.
2. PRECISE LONGITUDES ARE FLEXIBLE: As long as there is 180 degrees between each MIRI frame, then we still sample all 360 degrees of longitude. A "time after" constraint has been used to enforce this.
3. DITHERING: MIRI assumes a 4-point dither pattern to optimise the imaging of this 2.3" diameter disc. Large 1" dither offsets should be avoided, as the purpose is to improve spatial sampling for ALL of the MIRI channels. If a 2-point dither pattern is found to be sufficient for these moving targets, then we would consider changing the dithering technique prior to execution to increase the exposure time. NIRSPEC also assumes a 4-point dither pattern.
4. BACKGROUND: MIRI and NIRSPEC observations assume a single offset to a background region of sky (20" is acceptable, provided no Neptunian satellites are in the field of view). This would be best scheduled immediately before or after one of the science exposures.
5. SATURATION: The SHORT detector (channels 1 and 2) show no sign of saturating for 10 groups in the methane band at 7.66 µm (the brightest spectral point from 5-11 µm). The LONG detector (channels 3 and 4) saturate in the 5th group near C2H2 emission at 13.7 µm, so we selected 5 groups (the minimum recommended).