---
id: 1250
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging and MRS  NIRCam/Imaging  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "Geronimo Villanueva"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 10.4
program_title: "Probing the Sub-surface Oceans of Europa and Enceladus with JWST"
type: ""
---
# 1250 - Probing the Sub-surface Oceans of Europa and Enceladus with JWST
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1250
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                  | Observing Template                   | Science Target    |
| :--------------------- | :----------------------------------- | :---------------- |
| NIRCam Europa          | NIRCam Imaging                       | (1) EUROPA        |
| NIRSpec Europa         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy             | (1) EUROPA        |
| MIRI Europa            | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy  | (1) EUROPA        |
| MIRI Europa-BKG        | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy  | (3) EUROPA-BKG    |
| MIRI/Img Europa        | MIRI Imaging                         | (1) EUROPA        |
| NIRCam Enceladus       | NIRCam Imaging                       | (2) ENCELADUS     |
| NIRSpec Enceladus      | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy             | (2) ENCELADUS     |
| MIRI Enceladus         | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy  | (2) ENCELADUS     |
| MIRI/Img Enceladus     | MIRI Imaging                         | (2) ENCELADUS     |

## ABSTRACT

Do the icy moons, Europa and Enceladus, host habitable conditions at submerged hydrothermal vents? We propose to perform high spatial and spectral resolution observations of the jets emanating from these moons, measuring volatile abundances and isotopic ratios. Such measurements will reveal unprecedented information regarding the processes acting beneath the moons' thick ice crusts, and the potential for habitability of the sub-surface oceans.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

**Introduction and Background:** Do the icy moons, Europa and Enceladus, host habitable conditions at submerged hydrothermal vents? The right balance of energy sources, temperature, pressure and chemical diversity leads to prosperous environments for life on Earth. Thanks to the plentitude of recent discoveries of extremophile organisms, the limits for such conditions have greatly expanded, and the hypothesized sub-surface oceans on these moons represent one of the most habitable niches in our Solar System. Observations with JWST will permit to probe these habitats with unprecedented sensitivity and spatial resolution, revealing unique information regarding the processes acting beneath the moons' thick ice crusts, and the potential for habitability of the sub-surface oceans.

**Europa:** The surface of this moon of Jupiter is surprisingly young, as revealed by a crater retention age of only 10-100 Myr (1), suggestive of ongoing resurfacing. Furthermore, ice fractures and moving lineae are indicative of underlying tectonic activity and/or volcanic eruptions. By integrating this morphological information with that obtained by radio-tracking from the Galileo spacecraft, a possible ocean (or a low-density convective ice layer) of 80-170 km thickness is inferred to be present below Europa's icy crust (2, 3). More recently, water vapor plumes were observed above the frigid south polar regions (4), and linked to the previously identified fractures or lineae. Particularly interesting was the fact that the intensity of the plumes varied according to its distance from Jupiter, a strong indicator of tidal heating and flexing in Europa. Such tidal energy could provide enough heat to generate a liquid ocean underneath the ice, further establishing the sub-surface of Europa as an astrobiologically relevant site, with a potential for habitability. The presence of liquid water and of possible volcanic/hydrothermal sub-surface activity would resemble ecosystems on Earth, but no markers suggesting these processes are active in Europa have been detected.

**Enceladus:** As with Europa, Saturn's moon Enceladus shows a relatively young surface, linear fractures with enhanced temperatures - termed “tiger stripes" (5), and collimated plumes of water (6, 7). However, unlike Europa, the presence of a global sub-surface ocean is not suggested for Enceladus. Instead, smaller non-continguous reservoirs containing pressurized liquid water beneath its southern pole have been suggested. Using gravitational studies, Iess et al. (8) established the depth of this reservoir to be 30-40 kilometers, and to extend to south latitudes of ~50 degrees. The presence of natural radioactivity, together with an active surface could suggest a long-term water cycle. This would move material (as well as any organic compounds deposited on the surface) deep into these liquid-water reservoirs, thus providing a potential for habitability. Little is known about the chemical composition of the plumes, with the first in-situ measurements (9) revealing comet-life abundances. However, more detailed studies indicated that abundances appeared correlated with spacecraft velocity, a suspicious result suggesting that formation of most species occurred within the instrument itself (10).

The true composition of these habitats and that of the encompassing torus are still unknown, and key compositional studies can provide key insights into the processes sustaining the activity on these bodies and the potential habitability of their sub-surface.

**Proposed Investigation:** we propose to perform high spatial and spectral resolution observations of the jets emanating from these moons, measuring volatile abundances and isotopic ratios. Specifically, we propose to map these moons with NIRSpec in the whole 1-5 microns spectral range and with NIRCam with several filters, allowing us to address the following science goals:

1) **Habitability of the sub-surface oceans:** Measuring the composition of the plumes will test for chemical diversity of these “oceans,” perhaps indicative of geological activity. For instance, sensitive searches for volatile organics (e.g., CH3OH, H2CO) and sulfur species (e.g., SO2) would establish a rich chemical environment, representing a key parameter in the origin and development of life. In particular, clay-minerals (phyllosilicates) were recently discovered on the surface of Europa (11), suggesting an icy crust rich in meteoritic material delivered by asteroids and comets, known to be rich in organic material. The potential for such material reaching the sub-surface ocean (through a recycling icy crust) further enhances the possibility for habitability.

2) **Stability, location and composition of the active regions:** by performing high-resolution mapping, we will be able to identify the regions of active release, and the processes responsible for the activity.

**Why JWST?** JWST is uniquely favored among ground-based and spaceborne observatories to address these questions, because the moons are relatively small, the emanating material is modest and the emitting fluxes are heavily diluted by their large geocentric distances, ultimately requiring unprecedented sensitivities and high spatial resolutions. In addition, without the telluric extinction that affects ground-based observations, we can probe the strong fundamentals, leading to orders of magnitude improvements in sensitivity to what is currently possible.