---
id: 1251
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS  NIRCam/Imaging  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "Conor Nixon"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 15
program_title: "Titan Climate, Composition and Clouds"
type: ""
---
# 1251 - Titan Climate, Composition and Clouds
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1251
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                      | Observing Template              | Science Target       |
| :------------------------- | :------------------------------ | :------------------- |
| MIRI Leading Hemisphere    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) TITAN-LEADING-MIRI |
| BG FOR MIRI Leading Hemisphere | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) BG-TITAN-LEADING |
| NIRSpec Leading Hemisphere | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy          | (1) TITAN-LEADING    |
| NIRCam Leading Hemisphere  | NIRCam Imaging                  | (1) TITAN-LEADING    |
| NIRSpec Trailing Hemisphere | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy         | (2) TITAN-TRAILING   |
| NIRCam Trailing Hemisphere | NIRCam Imaging                  | (2) TITAN-TRAILING   |

## ABSTRACT

ID GTO 1251: We focus the extremely broad capability of the combined JWST instrument suite to advance our understanding of Titan's gases, hazes, condensates (clouds) and surface composition. NIRSpec's high-resolution spectral imaging (R~2700) at near-IR wavelengths (0.6-5.0 micron) in IFU mode will yield information on all of these scientific areas. The spatial resolution and multiple filter capability of JWST NIRCam will reveal the distribution of haze and clouds in the atmosphere occurring during southern winter/northern summer. MIRI will be used to measure Titan's stratosphere to attempt new gas detections, and to measure isotopic ratios with unprecedented sensitivity. We will obtain a full-range (4.9-28.8 micron), high resolution spectral-image with MIRI in MRS mode to measure temperatures, abundances of trace gases, isotopic ratios and haze signatures. This combined suite of observations in the 2019-2020 timeframe will follow directly after Cassini (end of mission in 2017) and expand on Cassini's science return. These observations will provide a valuable input to dynamical models, and also serve as a baseline JWST measurement that may be repeated later in the mission as Titan's south pole emerges into summer (Titan is known to be highly variable with season).

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Visit 1: Titan leading hemisphere: MIRI, NIRSpec, NIRCam. Anugular separation of Titan from Saturn > 1.8'.
Titan longitude 90 +/- 5.
Visit 2 (8 days after visit 1): NIRSpec, NIRCam. Anugular separation of Titan from Saturn > 1.8'.
Titan longitude 270 +/- 5.
MIRI: MRS mode, full spectrum, high resolution. FAST mode to avoid saturation. 4-pt dither.
MIRI Background Observation: mirror image point to Titan on imaginary Titan torsu around Saturn, but other side of Saturn.
NIRSpec:
Acquire data in all filters. 4 point dither. Observe twice, leading and trailing hemisphere.
Need Titan from Saturn > 1.7' to remove Saturn from MSA FOV; hence leakcal turned OFF.
Need two sides of Titan at +/- 90 longitude.
NIRCam:
Sub-array mode to avoid saturation (160^2). 4 sub-pixel positions. Observe twice, leading and trailing hemisphere.