---
id: 1252
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 13
program_title: "Spectral Mapping of a Comet's Inner Coma"
type: ""
---
# 1252 - Spectral Mapping of a Comet's Inner Coma
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1252
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Folder Observation | Label                          | Observing Template                 | Science Target          |
| :----------------- | :----------------------------- | :--------------------------------- | :---------------------- |
| Jupiter-family comet | 1 JFC NIRSpec IFU, prism and R2700 | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy           | (4) 22P-KOPFF           |
|                    | 2 JFC NIRSpec Background       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy           | (5) 22P-KOPFF-OFFSET    |
|                    | 3 JFC MIRI MRS                 | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) 22P-KOPFF           |
|                    | 4 JFC MIRI Background          | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (5) 22P-KOPFF-OFFSET    |
| Main-belt comet    | 5 MBC NIRCam imaging           | NIRCam Imaging                     | (3) 238P-READ           |
|                    | 6 MBC NIRSpec IFU prism        | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy           | (3) 238P-READ           |
|                    | 7 MBC NIRSpec Background       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy           | (3) 238P-READ           |

## ABSTRACT

Comets and asteroids delivered pre-biotic materials to the terrestrial planet zone, providing potential catalysts for life. The abundances and spatial distributions of gas and dust in the inner coma of comets provides insight into the composition and evolution of the nucleus, which in turn provides insight into the materials delivered to the early inner Solar System. We will spectrally map gas (H2O, CO2, CO, CH4, CH3OH, and others) and dust (silicates and carbonaceous materials) in the inner 1000 km of a moderately bright comet, and attempt the first detection of water vapor in the coma of a main belt comet. Key motivations driving this project are: to test the heterogeneity of a short-period comet's coma and to determine if gas coma heterogeneity is linked with dust coma heterogeneity; to demonstrate the new capabilities of JWST for the study of cometary composition; and to provide baseline observations for future cometary science investigations. JWST is expected to be the most sensitive instrument for the direct detection of water and other primary gases in comet comae. Mapping gas species in the near-infrared with JWST can provide data heretofore only delivered by in-situ spacecraft missions to 9P/Tempel 1, 67P/Churyumov-Gerasimenko, and 103P/Hartley 2. But beyond the capabilities of those missions, JWST can also map dust composition, providing a near-simultaneous census of the dominate components of a comet nucleus and coma.
This program corresponds to GTO Observation IDs: HAMMEL_0201, 0202, 0203, 0204, 0209, 0210, 0211.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

For the Jupiter-family comet: NIRSpec IFU prism mode and high-resolution spectroscopy for gas and water ice, MIRI IFU spectroscopy for dust. All observations have dedicated backgrounds.
For the main-belt comet: Both NIRCam and NIRSpec IFU prism mode data will be used to detect water gas at 2.7 m in the coma. The NIRSpec observation has a dedicated background. The NIRCam background can be derived in-scene or from the other module.
For both comets, the observations are sequenced together, non-interruptable, so that the full data sets are taken under a similar rotational phase of the nucleus, facilitating direct comparison of the data across different instruments. This also ensures the background observations are taken under similar conditions as the source data. The activity of both comets also vary through their orbits and the observation plans are specifically designed for the time periods when they are at their brightest for JWST. Timing constraints limit the observations to these periods.