---
id: 1253
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "Stefanie Milam"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 13.3
program_title: "ToO Comet"
type: ""
---
# 1253 - ToO Comet
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1253
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                        | Observing Template                    | Science Target                |
| :--------------------------- | :------------------------------------ | :---------------------------- |
| Near-IR Spectrscopy          | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy              | (1) 2022E3                    |
| NIRSpec Background           | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy              | (2) 2022E3BACKGROUND          |
| NIRSpec Background (fixed target) | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy              | (3) 2022E3-FIXED-BACKGROUND   |
| Near-IR Spectrscopy          | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy              | (1) 2022E3                    |
| NIRSpec Background           | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy              | (2) 2022E3BACKGROUND          |
| MIRI Spectroscopy            | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) 2022E3                    |
| MIRI Background              | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) 2022E3BACKGROUND          |
| MIRI Background (fixed target) | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) 2022E3-FIXED-BACKGROUND   |

## ABSTRACT

Comets and asteroids delivered pre-biotic materials to the terrestrial planet zone, providing potential catalysts for life. The abundances and spatial distributions of gas and dust in the inner coma of comets provides insight into the composition and evolution of the nucleus, which in turn provides insight into the materials delivered to the early inner Solar System. Here will conduct a full spectral study with JWST in the near infrared with JWST. Determining the volatile composition at wavelengths inaccessible from the ground will help reveal the comet's composition in parallel to observations with other facilities. We anticipate the detection of a number of known species including H2O, CO, CO2, CH3OH, and H2CO. Additionally, we will attempt to detect less abundant and possibly new species. These observations will provide context for the capability of JWST to conduct senstive near-IR spectral surveys of new dynamic objects.

We propose to observe a new dynamic comet or interstellar object, yet to be discovered during Cycle 1, or an outburst/disruption event from a known periodic comet. For comets, we find the intensity of the infrared spectral lines to scale according to a figure-of-merit (FM), given by FM = Q / ( rh^2 * Delta), where Q is the water production rate (in units 1E29 molecules per second), rh is the heliocentric distance (AU) and Delta the distance to the comet (AU). Time estimates were made for a comet with FM=0.01, which typically occurs several times a year, while Q(H2O) can be determined for the trigger with high-accuracy for this activity level from other means (e.g., ground-based, radio). Our team is part of an international comet observation campaign that has successfully organized observations from facilities around the world and in space. Our science program will be activated if these approximate conditions (both comet activity and approximate location) are met and the comet's rate of motion is within the limits of JWST's tracking capabilities with a reaction time of a few weeks. These triggers allow for apparitions of dynamically new objects (including interstellar) and/or outbursts from known periodic comets. If we consider the historical record, we may reach the trigger criterion >3 times a year.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

NIRSpec and MIRI high resolution observations of a target of opportunity comet.
Here we will conduct a Target of Opportunity (ToO) spectral survey of a TBD newly-discovered comet, interstellar object, or outburst of a known object, to determine the composition of volatiles not accessible from the ground and to complement ground-based surveys. Comets and asteroids delivered pre-biotic materials to the terrestrial planet zone, providing potential catalysts for life. The abundances and spatial distributions of gas and dust in the inner coma of comets provides insight into the composition and evolution of the nucleus, which in turn provides insight into the materials delivered to the early inner Solar System. We will spectrally map gas (H2O, CO2, CO, CH4, CH3OH, and others) across the near IR spectral range of JWST.

We propose to observe a new dynamic comet, yet to be discovered during Cycle 1 (HAMMEL_207-208). For comets, we find the intensity of the infrared spectral lines to scale according to a figure-of-merit (FM), given by FM = Q / ( rh^2 D), where Q is the water production rate (in units 1E29 molecules per second), rh is the heliocentric distance (AU) and delta the distance to the comet (AU). Time estimates were made for a comet with FM=0.01, which typically occurs several times a year, while Q(H2O) can be determined for the trigger with high-accuracy for this activity level from other means (e.g., ground-based, radio). Our team (led by S. Milam) is part of an international comet observation campaign that has successfully organized observations from facilities around the world and in space. Our science program will be activated if these approximate conditions (both comet activity and approximate location) are met and the comet's rate of motion is within the limits of JWST's tracking capabilities with a reaction time of a few weeks. These triggers allow for apparitions of dynamically new comets, interstellar objects, and/or outbursts from known periodic comets. If we consider the historical record, we may reach the trigger criterion >3 times a year.

The NIRSpec IFU observations are sequenced together, non-interruptable, so that the full data sets are taken under a similar rotational phase of the nucleus and other dynamic activity of these bodies. This also ensures the background observations are taken under similar conditions as the source data.

2023 Mar 01: Added fixed targets to serve as backgrounds for the executed C/2022 E3 observations. Made copies of Obs 2 and 4, accordingly. The RA and Dec is a clean part of sky near the successful on-source MIRI MRS observations.