---
id: 1254
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging and LRS  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "Alex Parker"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 15
program_title: "TNOs"
type: ""
---
# 1254 - TNOs
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1254
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                           | Observing Template                 | Science Target           |
| :------------------------------ | :--------------------------------- | :----------------------- |
| MIRI LRS                        | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy   | (1) MAKEMAKE             |
| MIRI IMAGING LONG. 1            | MIRI Imaging                       | (1) MAKEMAKE             |
| MIRI IMAGING BACKGROUND         | MIRI Imaging                       | (3) MAKEMAKE-BACKGROUND  |
| NIRSPEC IFU                     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy           | (1) MAKEMAKE             |
| MIRI IMAGING                    | MIRI Imaging                       | (2) VARUNA               |
| MIRI IMAGING                    | MIRI Imaging                       | (2) VARUNA               |
| MIRI IMAGING BACKGROUND         | MIRI Imaging                       | (4) VARUNA-BACKGROUND    |
| MIRI IMAGING BACKGROUND         | MIRI Imaging                       | (4) VARUNA-BACKGROUND    |
| NIRSPEC IFU                     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy           | (2) VARUNA               |

---

## ABSTRACT

We plan to exploit JWST's exquisite sensitivity in the 1-5 micron region to study the largest trans-Neptunian Objects and Kuiper Belt objects via reflectance spectroscopy. The composition of even the largest of these bodies is poorly constrained. We propose to use NIRSpec's IFU to obtain the first high-SNR, R > 100 spectra for a sample of these objects. MIRI spectra will also be obtained on some targets. These data can be expected to reveal the presence of previously unseen molecular ices, constrain their physical state (crystalline phase, solution with other species, temperature, grain-size), identify new organic species, and constrain isotopic ratios for some elements (H, O, C, N). MIRI MRS and Imaging data will also be used to study temperature variations on several targets, and will be interpreted in the context of existing Herschel and/or Spitzer thermal data. The targets represent a large fraction of the diversity of the Kuiper Belt in terms of collisional history (Pluto and Haumea underwent catastrophic impacts), effects of planetary migration (resonant, classical, Centaur and scattered objects), multiplicity (several host at least one moon), albedo, and major species composition (H2O, CH4, N2, NH3, CO). These objects represent the end-state of accretion and subsequent processing in the Kuiper Belt. This initial reconnaissance of their surface compositions will inform our understanding of the long history of processes in the outermost regions of the Sun's proto-planetary disk.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

**MAKEMAKE:** MIRI/LRS observations are planned for the KBO and dwarf planet Makemake to obtain high SNR spectra at the shorter mid-infrared wavelengths. Makemake is too faint to make MRS observations at the longest wavelengths worthwhile. A TA is specified in order to accurately place Makemake in the thin LRS slit. MIRI imaging observations are planned using the F1800W and F2550W filters to increase the observed flux from the thermal peak at longer wavelengths. Imaging observations are planned for 2 different orbital phases of Makemake's satellite. We place representative phase constraints on the two MIRI imaging observations: 2, 3. These phase constraints are meant to represent observations of different orbital phases of Makemake's newly discovered satellite in order to obtain a better chance of observing the satellite. Accurate numbers will replace the placeholder phase constraints after a better determination of the orbit of the satellite is better-determined. These phase constraints place a time window for the observations to occur less than 24 hours, but greater than 1 hour, so will not receive a 1-hour overhead in a future version of APT. Medium resolution NIRSpec IFU observations are planned to obtain a very high SNR in the near-infrared. The NRSIRS2RAPID readout mode was chosen to further increase the SNR for these spectra.

**VARUNA:** PRISM observations will be made of the KBO Varuna with the NIRSpec IFU to obtain a high SNR. The NRSIRS2RAPID readout mode was chosen to increase the SNR of these observations. PRISM covers the full wavelength range in the near-infrared. MIRI imaging observations are designed to obtain 95% rotational coverage of Varuna during its 6.3418-hour rotation period. Observing Varuna for ~6 straight hours reduces overheads and complexity by trying to obtain observations of specific longitudes. The F2550W filter was chosen to maximize flux due to the thermal peak at longer wavelengths.