---
id: 1255
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 2.3
program_title: "JWST Medium-Deep Fields -- Hammel IDS GTO Program"
type: ""
---
# 1255 - JWST Medium-Deep Fields -- Hammel IDS GTO Program
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1255
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                  | Observing Template | Science Target           |
| :--------------------- | :----------------- | :----------------------- |
| NEP TDS FIELD Spoke 5  | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) JWST-NEP-TDS-FIELD   |

---

## ABSTRACT

Our team assessed the detectability of distant solar system objects based on the parameters discussed in the “JWSTNEPcommunityfield16" document provided by JWST IDS R. Windhorst. Overall, nearly all distant solar system populations (> 40 AU) would have very low detectability: the proposed field is near the ecliptic pole (generally rules out Kuiper Belt Objects both classical and scattered, as well as Inner Oort Cloud Objects); the objects are extremely faint (e.g., Oort Cloud Objects); or the object's low density across the sky precludes meaningful discovery statistics (the near-polar-orbit Centaurs). There may be some populations that we know very little about such as bodies on near-polar orbits that could be detectable, but their numbers are not guaranteed. We nonetheless felt that given the non-zero probability of detection and given the importance of an actual detection, it was worthwhile to contribute time to the survey. This includes observation IDs: Hammel_6000, 6001, 6002, 6003, 6004, 6005, 6006, 6007, 6008, 6009, 6010.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

JWST NEP Time-Domain Community Field: Our team assessed the detectability of distant solar system objects based on the parameters discussed in the “JWSTNEPcommunityfield16” document provided by JWST IDS R. Windhorst. Overall, nearly all distant solar system populations (> 40 AU) would have very low detectability: the proposed field is near the ecliptic pole (generally rules out Kuiper Belt Objects both classical and scattered, as well as Inner Oort Cloud Objects); the objects are extremely faint (e.g., Oort Cloud Objects); or the object's low density across the sky precludes meaningful discovery statistics (the near-polar-orbit Centaurs). There may be some populations that we know very little about such as bodies on near-polar orbits that could be detectable, but their numbers are not guaranteed. We nonetheless felt that given the non-zero probability of detection and given the importance of an actual detection, it was worthwhile to contribute time to the survey.

Within the northern CVZ, in the very best field for Time-Domain Science with JWST, IDS Windhorst defined a ~46 hr Medium-Deep Blank Field GTO program, covering a 4-spoke pattern that can efficiently provide NIRISS slitless grism spectropscopy of a large portion of the area observed with NIRCam. Each spoke in this unique pattern consists of a 1row x 2col NIRCam mosaic with significant overlap to fill the large (~44") gap between the NIRCam modules and to provide contiguous NIRISS spectroscopic coverage. At each mosaic pointing, we fill the 4"-5" intra-module gaps using a 3-step INTRAMODULE dither (no sub-pixel dithering).

The present observations add half of a component for an additional spoke at an orientation that notionally differs by 45 degrees from the pattern defined by Windhorst to add both areal coverage over which full object characterization is obtained, as well as time-domain coverage in the areas (wedges) of overlap. NIRCam imaging is obtained in F090W, F115W, F150W, F200W in the SW, and F277W, F356W, F444W, and F410M in the LW channel, with the F150W, F200W, F277W and F356W exposures split to match number of NIRISS exposures). In parallel to the NIRCam imaging, we obtain NIRISS slitless spectroscopy with the orthogonal F150C and F150R grisms, crossed with the F200W filter (the associated NIRISS direct images are with the F200W filter).