---
id: 1257
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 26.8
program_title: "The Young Protostellar Outflow HH211"
type: ""
---
# 1257 - The Young Protostellar Outflow HH211
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1257
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                        | Observing Template               | Science Target           |
| :--------------------------- | :------------------------------- | :----------------------- |
| MIRI MRS mapping             | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) HH211                |
| HH211 background             | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) HH211-BACKGROUND     |
| NIRCAM imaging of H211       | NIRCam Imaging                   | (5) HH211NIRCAM          |
| NIRSPEC map of HH211 SW bow shock | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy         | (4) HH211-SW-BOW-SHOCK   |

---

## ABSTRACT

This project is a combined effort of MIRI GTO team (PI G. Wright, WRIGHT_4035-4036) and Dr. M. McCaughrean GTO (PI. McCaughrean, MCCAUGHREAN_0401-0409, MCCAUGHREAN_0501). Note that the original 22.8 hrs allocated time has been extended to 23.93 hrs, which includes 8.13 hrs (originally 7 hrs) from Dr. McCaughrean GTO and additional 15.8 hrs from Wright GTO. Drs. Wright and McCaughrean can confirm the new settings.
We will carry out MIRI MRS and NIRSpec IFU spectral mapping, as well as NIRCam imaging of the young HH211 protostellar outflow. By examining spectra at different positions along the outflow, density, ionization fraction, temperature, dust content, etc., can be determined as a function of distance from the source, offering a chance to study how the outflow gas interacts with the surrounding medium on larger scales. This will allow us to make the direct connection with the traditional optical/nearIR diagnostics and study the bowshocks at the tip of the outflow lobes where the jet directly impacts the surrounding cloud and which are known to be very rich spectroscopically. The aim is a comprehensive study of the physical conditions throughout this prototypical deeply-embedded young outflow driven by a Class 0 object, including the density, ionisation fraction, temperature, dust content, etc. This will make it possible to understand the energetics of the flow and its interaction with the ambient molecular cloud on both the large and small scales. The outflow is compact, with an estimated age of only a few thousand years. Substantial existing additional near-IR, mid-IR, and millimetre data will be analysed as part of this study.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will carry out MIRI MRS and NIRSpec IFU spectral mapping, as well as NIRCam imaging of the young HH211 protostellar outflow.
MIRI MRS 12x2 map (channels 1,2,3,4) are designed to encompass the whole blue-shifted lobe of the flow, as well as the embedded protostar and part of the red-shifted lobe.
As MIRI orientation in the sky cannot follow the outflow PA (~204 degrees), we shift each mosaic row by 31 rows to mimic the PA.
We link complementary observation of the background within 1 day to be used to remove telecope and sky emission.
NIRSpec IFU (G325H & G395H gratings) will perform spectral imaging of the brightest (SE) bowshock in the outflow, using a 2x5 map, with 4 tiles removed.
As for MIRI, PA constraints are set to to encompass the bow-shock shape.
NIRCam will map the whole outflow in 5 narrow-band filters (F164N, F212N, F323N, F466N, F470N to isolate specific molecular and atomic emission lines) and 4 medium-band filters (162M, 210M,335M, 460M, to remove continuum emission) over a field of ~ 2.2 arcmin x 4.4 arcmin. Selected PAs and coordinates allow us to map HH211 flow with module B as well as 2 additional flows from young protostars with module A.