---
id: 1260
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: "NIRISS/AMI"
pi_and_co_pis: "K. E. Saavik Ford"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 5.3
program_title: "NGC 1068 as Proving Ground for NIRISS AMI"
type: ""
---
# 1260 - NGC 1068 as Proving Ground for NIRISS AMI
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1260
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Folder Observation | Label | Observing Template                | Science Target   |
| :----------------- | :---- | :-------------------------------- | :--------------- |
| 1                  |       | NIRISS Aperture Masking Interferometry | (1) NGC1068      |
| 2                  |       | NIRISS Aperture Masking Interferometry | (4) HD17130      |
| 3                  |       | NIRISS Aperture Masking Interferometry | (1) NGC1068      |
| 4                  |       | NIRISS Aperture Masking Interferometry | (3) HD15633      |
| 103                |       | NIRISS Aperture Masking Interferometry | (1) NGC1068      |
| 104                |       | NIRISS Aperture Masking Interferometry | (4) HD17130      |

## ABSTRACT

Ground-based imaging of the Narrow Line Region (NLR) of nearby Seyfert 2 Active Galactic Nucleus (AGN), NGC 1068, reveals substantial near-IR emission aligned along the axis of a biconical outflow. Clear evidence of dust emission at temperatures ~700K imply a heating mechanism acting locally, at distances of ~few 10s pc away from the AGN central engine. At larger distances, the near-IR emission is roughly coincident with [OIII] emission observed from HST, and radio emission possibly due to a jet. Thus it has been suggested that a sheath of interacting material around the jet may be providing heating via photoionization. The highest angular resolution near-IR images, however, show a possible arc of emission, probably in the plane orthogonal to the jet, extremely close to the central point source (~130mas). If real, the arc must be produced by mechanisms operating at the poorly-understood interface between the inflowing reservoir of material supplying the torus and central engine. Only NIRISS AMI observations can unambiguously detect or rule out the presence of the arc structure; we propose observations in F380M, F430M and F480M filters, yielding 65-70mas resolution across a sub-arcsecond field of view. We expect to measure the temperatures of a variety of clouds in the field, including the arc, with some objects as bright as L=7.7. The processes governing this region are critically responsible for the balance between inflowing material from the galaxy, outflowing material due to AGN feedback, and accretion onto the black hole itself. [abridged]
Observation IDs: DOYON_80[00-11]
Partially Seq non-int with Program ID: 1200 (PI: Rameau) Observation IDs: DOYON_400[0-5]

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will observe NGC 1068, an L'=7.7 source at two orientations using NIRISS AMI. The observations must be separated by at least 15 degrees in position angle to provide adequate (u,v) plane coverage. Due to features in the (u,v) plane, actual permitted PA offsets cannot be fully specified in the explicit requirements, see comments for full permissions. Thus observations must be separated by ~weeks. For each observation we will also observe HD15633 as a PSF calibrator. We need 3 filters to measure the temperatures of observed dust features in NGC 1068, with 1e8 photons in each filter. Gratadour et al. 2006 find the nuclear source is M'=6.6, which is nearly equivalent to F480M; L'=7.7, approximately equivalent to F380M and we interpolate to find F430M should be 7.2mag. Due to the brightness of the source, we use the 80x80 sub-array. Based on current chip performance and bad pixel placement, we do not require dithers.
In addition, we are coordinating with GTO ID: 1200, PI: Rameau on calibrator observations; our observation 4 (the longer calibrator observation) must be observed in a non-int seq with Rameau's program. This is not fully represented by this APT file, nor by the APT submitted under ID: 1200. The order of observations does not matter--our observations 3&4 can happen before our observations 1&2; in addition, Program 1200 can go before Program 1260 or vice versa. The brightness of our calibrator, HD15633 is estimated from WISE W1=5.56 and W2=5.43; program 1260 requires 1e8 photons for each filter at each visit for target and calibrator; program 1200 requires 2.5e9 photons in F480M in the non-int seq observation.
Total request is 4.4hr.