---
id: 1262
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 38
program_title: "Integral Field Spectroscopy at z > 8"
type: ""
---
# 1262 - Integral Field Spectroscopy at z > 8
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1262
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                      | Observing Template                     | Science Target             |
| :------------------------- | :------------------------------------- | :------------------------- |
| MRS-EGSY8P7                | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (3) EGSY8P7-MIRI-MRS       |
| MIRIM-EGSY8P7              | MIRI Imaging                           | (4) EGSY8P7-MIRI-IMAGER    |
| MRS-MACS1149-JD1           | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (14) MACS1149-JD1-MIRI     |
| MIRIM-MACS1149-J D1        | MIRI Imaging                           | (14) MACS1149-JD1-MIRI     |
| MACS1149-JD1-NIRS pec      | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy               | (13) MACS1149-JD1-NIRSPEC  |
| EGSY8P7-NIRSpec            | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy               | (2) EGSY8P7-NIRSPEC        |

## ABSTRACT

This APT is for NIRSpec-IFU and MIRI observations of two EoR sources, one Lyman-alpha emitter (EGSY8p7) in the EGS cosmological field, and one [OIII] emitters in the MACS1149 Frontier Field. The two galaxies are spectroscopically confirmed at a redshifts of 8.68 and 9.11, respectively. They will be observed by both the NIRSpec and the MIRI GTO teams to cover the UV and optical (Halpha and other lines) rest-frame.

NIRSpec:
The NIRSpec-IFU observations are part of the NIRSpec GTO Physics of Galaxy Assembly IFS survey.
The NIRSpec-IFU observations are performed at R100 and R2700. The specific band for the high-resolution observations is aimed at including the most important emission lines (from ~ H-beta to H-alpha).

MIRI:
MIRI is the only instrument onboard JWST able to detect the H-alpha line for sources at redshifts beyond 6.7, the key diagnostic line to establish the instantaneous star formation, as well as the Ly-alpha and ionizing continuum escape fractions for sources during the Epoch of Reionization (EoR) of the universe. Deep MIRI spectroscopy of the H-alpha line with the medium resolution integral field spectrograph (MRS) of one bright Ly-alpha spectroscopically confirmed sources at z>8 in the Extended Groth Strip (EGSY8p7) will be obtained, as well as mid-IR imaging of the host galaxy and nearby fields with the MIRI imager and filters F770W and F1000W. A similar observational scheme will be used for MACS1149_JD1

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

NIRSPEC OBSERVING DESCRIPTIONS:
These two galaxies will be observed using the NIRSpec-IFU as part of the “Physics of Galaxy Assembly IFU survey” program. Observations will be done with grating/filters PRISM (R100) and G395H/F290LP (R2700). By combining with the MIRI observations (see below), we take advantage of the "smart accounting" option to save slew overheads.

No TA (target acquisition) is included, as it has been checked that there is a large fraction of guide stars with GAIA astrometry.

A 8-point dither pattern ("medium" cycling) provides a good compromise between an amplitude (~0.5 ") large enough to "jump" the failed open microsutthers and to deal with other sources of background, while keeping a large FoV with complete exposure time (~2.5"x2.5"). This dither pattern also allows a good sub-pixel sampling.

No extra background exposures are included. For R100 it was considered that there will be a relatively large number of spaxels free from galaxy emission to derive the background. For the R2700, in addition, the goal is to study the emission lines and therefore the background should be less relevant.

Even though the contamination by bright targets leaking through the MSA is expected to be small for the PAs selected (see above), we take an extra leakage exposure for R100 in one pointing in order to be able to understand the effects of the surronding field.

The IRS2RAPID reading mode was selected to maximise S/N, providing also good temporal resolution for CR detection/rejection.

MIRI OBSERVING DESCRIPTIONS:
MIRI observe two spectroscopically confirmed EoR sources, the Ly-alpha emitters EGSY8P7, and the [OIII[ emitters MACS1149_JD1 with redshifts of 8.7 and 9.1, respectively. The main purpose of the program is to get the H-alpha emission line and the spectral range around it ([NII], [SII]) as well as the Hel 1.083 microns line. Nearby, adjacent fields will be simultaneously imaged with the F770W and F1000W filters. In addition, we request the imaging of the host galaxy with the IMAGER using the F560w filter.

The dithering strategies (4-pt+2-pt., point source) were selected to optimize the PSF and detector effects for channel 1 of the MRS (H-alpha line is located in this channel for the two sources).

The PA constrain (PA_V3 = 167 degrees) for EGSY8p7 has been selected to avoid bright stars that can saturate de simultaneous IMAGER observations, and to be in a low background regime emission in Channel 1 of the MRS. Low background conditions are required to minimize the impact of background in the observations and signal-to-noise ratio for these very faint galaxies at high redshifts.