---
id: 1265
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "Almudena Alonso-Herrero"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 6.3
program_title: "NGC 6240"
type: ""
---
# 1265 - NGC 6240
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1265
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                    | Observing Template                 | Science Target              |
|--------------------------|------------------------------------|-----------------------------|
| NGC6240-INT-MIRI         | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy| (4) NGC6240-INT-MRS         |
| NGC6240-bg-MIRI          | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy| (2) NGC6240-BACKGROUND      |
| NGC6240-MIRIM            | MIRI Imaging                       | (1) NGC6240-INT             |
| NGC6240-INT-NIRSpec      | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy           | (1) NGC6240-INT             |

## ABSTRACT

This is the combined IFU spectroscopic MIRI+NIRSpec observation of the luminous infrared interacting galaxy NGC6240, tracing multiple diagnostics (ionized gas, molecular hot/warm gas, and dust features) with the goal of characterizing the physical properties of the circumnuclear regions (SF, stellar population, ISM properties), the dual AGN and the massive outflow. The observation IDs are: FERRUIT_4500, WRIGHT_7502, WRIGHT_7503 and WRIGHT_7504.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This is a GTO proposal to observe NGC6240.
We will obtain MIRI MRS observations of the central region covering the two nuclei using all spectral settings to cover the entire 5-28micron spectral range. We will also take a background observation with the MIRI MRS. Additionaly we will use the MIRI imager to obtain observations with two filters F560W and F1130W.
NIRSpec IFU observations include three high resolution gratings to cover the wavelength range from 1 to 5.3 microns. No target acquition is considered, as there are many guide stars with gaia astrometry. The PA is restricted to minimise leakage through the MSA. In addition, as the field around NGC6240 is plenty of bright objects, leakage calibration exposures (for one dither position) are also included.