---
id: 1266
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 9.4
program_title: "NIRSpec & MIRI Integral-Field Spectroscopy of the Galactic Center"
type: ""
---
# 1266 - NIRSpec & MIRI Integral-Field Spectroscopy of the Galactic Center
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1266
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                   | Observing Template                  | Science Target        |
| :---------------------- | :---------------------------------- | :-------------------- |
| GC_NIRSpec-1            | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy            | (1) GC-NIRSPEC-1      |
| GC_NIRSpec-2            | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy            | (7) GC-NIRSPEC-2      |
| GC_MIRI                 | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) GC-MIRI           |
| GC_background_MIRI      | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) MIRI-GC-BCKGR-1   |
| GC_NIRSpec-1-Repeat     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy            | (1) GC-NIRSPEC-1      |
| GC_NIRSpec-2-Repeat     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy            | (7) GC-NIRSPEC-2      |
| GC_MIRI_Repeat          | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) GC-MIRI           |
| GC_background_MIRI_Repeat | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) MIRI-GC-BCKGR-1   |
| GC_MIRI_Repeat          | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) GC-MIRI           |
| GC_background_MIRI_Repeat | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) MIRI-GC-BCKGR-1   |

## ABSTRACT

FERRUIT_4550 NIRSpec IFU Galactic Center
WRIGHT_7509 MIRI MRS Sag A*
WRIGHT_7510 MIRI MRS Sag A*_bg

At a distance of 8 kpc, the center of our galaxy is the closest galactic nucleus that can be studied. It harbors one of the two largest SMBH in projected size on the sky (see e.g. Eckart, Schoedel & Straubmeier 2005). The central stellar cluster, the S-stars, contain massive, young and luminous stars (e.g. Schödel et al. 2002; Ghez et al. 2003; Eisenhauer et al. 2005; Ghez et al. 2005) surrounding an interacting with SgrA*, the radio counterpart of the 4×10^6 M super massive black hole (SMBH). In contrast to gas, the orbits of the stars are governed by gravitation only and therefore provide an excellent tracer for the gravitational potential in our Galactic center. This unique setup provides the best measurement of the mass of a black hole to date and unambiguously confirms the existence of a supermassive black hole in the center of our galaxy (Genzel et al. 2010). Schödel et al. (2002) and Ghez et al. (2003) carried out high resolution near-IR imaging and spectroscopy of the central region of our Milky Way. They found a star (nowadays known as S2) closely bound to a central massive object with an orbital period of 15.2 years (see also Gillessen et al. 2009a). The monitoring of its orbit for over 10 years provided the best observation of a Keplerian orbit around a massive black hole to date. Today, the number of well-determined orbits has risen from 1 to 28 while 109 stars in total are still being monitored (Gillessen et al. 2009b).

We propose to observe the Galactic Center using both NIRSpec and MIRI Integral Field Spectroscopy. This will not only provide an excellent opportunity to detectc, for the first time, SgrA* in th MIR (likely dilution effects have made it impossible so far) but will give detailed 3D spectrocopic data in all the JWST spectral range to study the central stellar cluster in detail.

The original proposal requested a background taget for MIRI (GC-BG-MIRI). After updates in the guide star catalog and increases in the guide star spoiler radius, we are not able to use that target as a background (cannot be schedule back-to-back). Here we propose three different background targets that can be scheduled.

This proposal links all the visits (MIRI and NIRSpec) in a sequence non-interruptible way. The galactic centre is highly variable target; one of the aspects we want to study are the S-stars. These stars move quickly and we want all the observations taken as close as possible to have them in the same stage.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

**NIRSpec observations:**
IFU 1x2 mosaic
TA method is VERIFY ONLY, the pointing verification MSA configuration is ALLCLOSED
The spectral configurations used are:
G235H/F170LP
G935H/F290LP
The IFU observations include a leakage exposure
In all exposures the readout mode is IRS2RAPID
The dither pattern is a 4pt cycling dither

**MIRI Observations**
Single pointing MRS observations with no simultaneous imaging (due to saturation risk)
The MRS is used in all bands with a 4pt dither pattern and FAST readout mode.
We have included a background pointing to be able to measure the telescope thermal emission.
The background observations use the same detector configuration and a 2 point dither pattern.
The observations use TA for both the GC and background source. At the moment APT requires mandatory TA for the MIRI MRS, but in the APT 25.4 version should be optional and we will not require it. The numbers provided in the MIRI TA sections are just placeholders not to have proposal errors.