---
id: 1267
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "Daniel Dicken"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 8
program_title: "NIRSpec+MIRI IFU Observations of Arp220"
type: ""
---
# 1267 - NIRSpec+MIRI IFU Observations of Arp220
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1267
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label              | Observing Template                  | Science Target               |
| :----------------- | :---------------------------------- | :--------------------------- |
| INT_NIRSpec        | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy            | (1) ARP220-INT               |
| Shell_NIRSpec      | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy            | (3) ARP220-SHELL             |
| INT_MIRI           | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) ARP220-INT-MIRI          |
| Background_MIRI    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) ARP220-BACKGROUND-MIRI |

---

## ABSTRACT

NIRSpec and MIRI IFU observations of the nucleus of Arp220.

The MIRI IFU observations will provide unprecedented high-resolution, high sensitivity view of dust-obscured Star Formation around the double nucleus of this gas-rich, late stage galaxy merger. The detection of high-excitation coronal lines in the mid-IR would provide a diagnositic for the power source of the far-IR luminosity of this archetypal object.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The spatially resolved NIRSpec IFU observations will allow us to characterize the stellar populations, the unobscured star formation distribution, the dust structure, the different phases of the ISM (e.g., ionized, warm molecular, coronal), and possible gas flows in the vicinity of the two nuclei, as well as in the shell located towards the NW.

FERRUIT_4530 NIRSpec IFU Arp220_int
FERRUIT_4531 NIRSpec IFU Arp220_shell
WRIGHT_7500 MIRI MRS Arp 220_int
WRIGHT_7501 MIRI MRS Arp 220_bg

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION
NIRSpec IFU observations include three high resolution grating settings to cover the spectraol range from 1 to 5.3 microns.
"no TA" option is used, as there is plenty of guide stars with gaia astrometry.
A four-point dither pattern (cycling/medium, 1-4) is used. This provides a comon area of 2.5"x2.5", and good subpixel sampling.
The NRSIRS2RAPID optimizes S/N and facilitates the detection and rejection of CR.
We have contrained the PA-V3 to minimise leakage through the MSA due to nearby bright objects.

**Observation 1**
NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy - INT
The pointing here is at an intermediate location set between the coordinates of the East and West nuclei.
G140H/F100LP NRSIRS2RAPID
G235H/F170LP NRSIRS2RAPID
G395H/F290LP NRSIRS2RAPID

**Observation 2**
NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy - SHELL
This pointing covers the shell of Ha emission at the NW from the nuclei.
G140H/F100LP NRSIRS2RAPID
G235H/F170LP NRSIRS2RAPID
G395H/F290LP NRSIRS2RAPID

**Observation 3**
MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy - INT
As for the NIRSpec observations the target is an intermediate location set between the coordiatnes of the East and West Nuclei. Both Nuclei will be in the field of view of the MRS in all channels with a single pointing.
Target aquisition will not be used in this observation.
Wavelength - all
Primary channel - all
simultaneous imaging - yes at F560W

**Observation 4**
MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy - BACKGROUND
Because ARP220 will fill the FOV of the MRS we have to take an off target spectrocsopic background image. A target background region to the North East of ARP220 has been selected. The background observations match the on source observations in integration time but with a reduced number of dither positions.
Target aquisition will not be used in this observation.
Wavelength - all
Primary channel - all
simultaneous imaging - yesat F560W