---
id: 1268
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "Roberto Maiolino"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 6.9
program_title: "NIRSpec & MIRI Integral-Field Spectroscopy of the Nucleus of Mrk 231"
type: ""
---
# 1268 - NIRSpec & MIRI Integral-Field Spectroscopy of the Nucleus of Mrk 231
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1268
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                  | Observing Template                  | Science Target            |
| :--------------------- | :---------------------------------- | :------------------------ |
| MRK231-Nuc-MIRI        | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) MRK231-NUC-MIRI       |
| MRK231-bg-MIRI         | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) MRK231-BACKGROUND     |
| MRK231-Nuc-NIRSpec     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy            | (4) MRK231-NUC-NIRSPEC    |
| MRK231-Shell-NIRSpec   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy            | (3) MRK231-SHELL          |

---

## ABSTRACT

This is the MIRI+NIRSpec combined IFU spectroscopic observation of the nearest quasar Mrk231, tracing multiple diagnostics of the ISM (ionized gas, molecular hot/warm gas, and dust features) with the goal of characterizing the physical properties of the circumnuclear region (SF, stellar population, ISM properties) and of the quasar-driven outflow.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

NIRSpec observations:
This part corresponds to NIRSpec IFU Proposal ID: FERRUIT_4510 and FERRUIT_4511
(NIRSpec contact Roberto Maiolino)
The NIRSpec IFU observation is performed both on the nucleus and on the
an outflow shell located to the south of the nucleus.
Observations all obtained in all three bands, at high resolution to sample
multiple spectra features distributed between 1 and 5um.
For each position we adopt 4 dither positions.
No Target Acquisition is performed in this case: point-and-shoot should have
a pointing accuracy good enough for our goals.

MIRI observations:
This part corresponds to MIRI Proposal ID: WRIGHT_7505 and WRIGHT_7506
(MIRI contact Almudena Alonso-Herrero)
Observation is done in all four channels.
We plan fast target acquisition.
Only the nucleus of Mrk231 is targeted (no observation on the southern shell),
with a 4 points dither.
However, we also obtain an offset position to sample the background, with only
one position (no dithers)