---
id: 1270
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 8.7
program_title: "Characterizing the TWA 27 System"
type: ""
---
# 1270 - Characterizing the TWA 27 System
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1270
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Folder Observation | Label                 | Observing Template                  | Science Target |
| :----------------- | :-------------------- | :---------------------------------- | :------------- |
| 1                  | TWA-27-MIRI-MRS       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) TWA-27-AB  |
| 2                  | TWA-27-MIRI-Imaging   | MIRI Imaging                        | (1) TWA-27     |
| 3                  | TWA-27                | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy            | (2) TWA-27-AB  |
| 4                  | TWA-28                | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy            | (3) TWA-28     |

---

## ABSTRACT

TWA 27 (2MASSW J1207334-393254, 2M1207) is a brown dwarf that is being orbited by a giant planet candiate (2M1207b) with an apparent separation of about 0.77 arcsec. In this program, we will characterize the TWA 27 system and planet candidate.

The observations in this proposal correspond to the following GTO observation IDs:
Observations 1 and 2: WRIGHT_0001 and WRIGHT_0002
Observations 3 and 4: FERRUIT_5501 and FERRUIT_5502

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

**NIRSpec:**
Although NIRSpec has an oversized fixed slit that is optimized for high contrast transit observations, it does not have a coronagraph. In this project, we will explore the practicality of obtaining spectroscopy of a directly imaged exoplanet (TWA-27b) with the NIRSpec IFU. Data will be taken with the three high resolution gratings (G140H/F100LP, G235H/F170LP, and G395H/F290LP) in order to obtain a continous spectrum/data cube from ~1.0 through 5.2 microns. In order to be able to subtract the signal of the bright host star (TWA-27), we will observe a nearby reference target of similar brightness and spectral type (TWA-28). Alternatively, we could explore the possibility to perform observations at a different roll angle in order to substract out the host star.

**MIRI:**
We plan to characterise spectroscopically in the MIRI wavelength range both the brown dwarf and its low mass companion. Given that it is not schedulable to have both the star and its companion aligned in the LRS slit, we will use MRS observations. We will use a 4 point dither to well sampling the PSF at short wavelengths. To remove the contribution of the host star and get the companion spectrum, we will use the signal from the star itself (part without companion contribution extrapolated to the part with companion contribution; the extrapolation will be done with or without the use of a PSF reference star, which for example could be taken from our MIRi brown dwarf program). We have chosen not to use coronagraphic observations because the contrast between the companion and the star is relatively low (a factor 10). In addition, we plan to perform an imaging observation with the F1500W filter to get a better S/N and to put constraints on possible other companions in the field.

**Scientific justification for the 'non-interruptible sequence':**
We are aiming to get spectra of TWA-27 and its planetary mass companion from 1 through 28 micron using the NIRSpec and MIRI IFUs. Because these kind of objects can show variability over time (see e.g. Zhou et al. 2019), the NIRSpec and MIRI observations should be as close as possible in time in order to ensure that spectra can be 'stitched together' in an optimal way. We use a non-interruptible group/sequence special requirement to achieve that.