---
id: 1272
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 17.8
program_title: "Kuiper Belt Science with JWST"
type: ""
---
# 1272 - Kuiper Belt Science with JWST
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1272
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Folder Observation | Label             | Observing Template               | Science Target   |
| :----------------- | :---------------- | :------------------------------- | :--------------- |
| TRITON             | MIRI MRS          | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) TRITON       |
| TRITON             | MIRI MRS          | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) TRITON       |
| TRITON             | MIRI IMAGING      | MIRI Imaging                     | (1) TRITON       |
| TRITON             | MIRI IMAGING BCKG | MIRI Imaging                     | (5) TRITON-BCKG  |
| TRITON             | MIRI IMAGING      | MIRI Imaging                     | (1) TRITON       |
| TRITON             | MIRI IMAGING BCKG | MIRI Imaging                     | (5) TRITON-BCKG  |
| TRITON             | NIRSPEC IFU       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy         | (1) TRITON       |
| TRITON             | NIRSPEC IFU       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy         | (1) TRITON       |
| 2013 XZ8           | MIRI MRS          | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) 2013XZ8      |
| 2013 XZ8           | NIRSPEC IFU       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy         | (2) 2013XZ8      |
| CHARIKLO           | NIRSPEC IFU       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy         | (3) CHARIKLO     |
| CHARIKLO           | NIRSPEC IFU       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy         | (3) CHARIKLO     |
| SEDNA              | NIRSPEC IFU       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy         | (4) SEDNA        |

---

## ABSTRACT

Observation IDs: HINES_1000, HINES_1001, HINES_2000, HINES_2001, HINES_3000, HINES_3001, HINES_4000, HINES_5000, HINES_6000, HINES_7000, HINES_8000, HINES_9000, HINES_10000, WRIGHT_2001
We plan to exploit JWST's exquisite sensitivity in the 1-5 micron region to study the largest trans-Neptunian Objects and Kuiper Belt objects via reflectance spectroscopy. The composition of even the largest of these bodies is poorly constrained. We propose to use NIRSpec's IFU to obtain the first high-SNR, R > 100 spectra for a sample of these objects. MIRI spectra will also be obtained on some targets. These data can be expected to reveal the presence of previously unseen molecular ices, constrain their physical state (crystalline phase, solution with other species, temperature, grain-size), identify new organic species, and constrain isotopic ratios for some elements (H, O, C, N). MIRI MRS and Imaging data will also be used to study temperature variations on several targets, and will be interpreted in the context of existing Herschel and/or Spitzer thermal data. The targets represent a large fraction of the diversity of the Kuiper Belt in terms of collisional history (Pluto and Haumea underwent catastrophic impacts), effects of planetary migration (resonant, classical, Centaur and scattered objects), multiplicity (several host at least one moon), albedo, and major species composition (H2O, CH4, N2, NH3, CO). These objects represent the end-state of accretion and subsequent processing in the Kuiper Belt. This initial reconnaissance of their surface compositions will inform our understanding of the long history of processes in the outermost regions of the Sun's proto-planetary disk.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

TRITON: Observations are planned for 2 different hemispheres on Triton, the largest moon of Neptune, with one centered on peak absorption from volatile ices (340-20 degrees) and one on the opposite hemisphere where absorption from volatiles is at a minimum (160-180 degrees). Observations 1, 2, and 3 were grouped to observe the volatile-rich hemisphere of Triton and observations 9, 10, and 11 were grouped to observe the volatile-poor hemisphere of Triton. Triton's rotation period is ~5.9 days. These central longitude constraints place a time window for the observations to occur less than 24 hours, but greater than 1 hour, so will not receive a 1-hour overhead in a future version of APT. NIRSpec IFU observations are at the highest resolution due to the brightness of Triton; a high SNR can be achieved throughout the wavelength range even at high resolution. The NRSIRS2RAPID readout mode was chosed to further increase the SNR in a shorter amount of time. The imaging filters chosen are the longest wavelength filters available on MIRI because the flux is the highest at these longest wavelengths (due to Triton's thermal peak at even longer wavelengths). 5 groups (the minimum recommended) are specified for the MIRI imaging observations because a high SNR can be achieved in only a short period of time. The full MRS range (all 3 grating settings) will be used to obtain observations from 5.6 to 28 microns. The FAST readout mode was selected due to Triton's brightness. Simultaneous imaging of the field near Triton during the MRS observations are planned with the F1280W filter. TA for the Triton MRS observations are not required but must be specified in APT 25.4.0.1 since there is currently no option for "No TA." TA will be removed in a future version of APT.
ECHECLUS: Medium resolution and PRISM observations will be made of the Centaur Echeclus with the NIRSpec IFU to obtain a decent SNR. The NRSIRS2RAPID readout mode was chosen to increase the SNR of these observations. The FAST readout mode was selected due to Echeclus's brightness. Simultaneous imaging of the field near Echeclus during the MRS observations are planned with the F1280W filter. TA for the Echeclus MRS observations are not required but must be specified in APT 25.4.0.1 since there is currently no option for "No TA." TA will be removed in a future version of APT.
BIENOR: PRISM observations will be made of the grey Centaur Bienor with the NIRSpec IFU to obtain a decent SNR. The NRSIRS2RAPID readout mode was chosen to increase the SNR of these observations.
SEDNA: Medium resolution and PRISM observations will be made of the KBO Sedna with the NIRSpec IFU to obtain a decent SNR. The NRSIRS2RAPID readout mode was chosen to increase the SNR of these observations. Due to the relative faintness of Sedna, observations at the longest near-infrared wavelengths, where flux from the object is lowest, will be made with the low-resolution PRISM mode instead of the medium resolution grating. PRISM also covers the full wavelength range and will contribute to a higher SNR at the shorter wavelengths.