---
id: 1273
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 18
program_title: "Kuiper Belt Science with JWST"
type: ""
---
# 1273 - Kuiper Belt Science with JWST
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1273
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
**1. Labels, Observing Templates, and Science Targets (OBSERVATIONS Table):**

| Folder Observation | Label                       | Observing Template               | Science Target           |
| :----------------- | :-------------------------- | :------------------------------- | :----------------------- |
| HAUMEA             | MIRI/LRS                    | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) HAUMEA               |
| HAUMEA             | MIRI/LRS                    | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) HAUMEA               |
| HAUMEA             | MIRI/IMAGING                | MIRI Imaging                     | (1) HAUMEA               |
| HAUMEA             | MIRI/IMAGING BACKGROUND     | MIRI Imaging                     | (7) HAUMEA-BACKGROUND    |
| HAUMEA             | NIRSPEC IFU                 | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy         | (1) HAUMEA               |
| HAUMEA             | NIRSPEC IFU                 | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy         | (1) HAUMEA               |
| HAUMEA             | NIRSPEC IFU                 | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy         | (1) HAUMEA               |
| HAUMEA             | NIRSPEC IFU                 | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy         | (1) HAUMEA               |
| QUAOAR             | NIRSPEC IFU                 | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy         | (2) QUAOAR               |
| CENTAURS           | AMYCUS NIRSPEC IFU          | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy         | (4) AMYCUS               |
| CENTAURS           | 2008 FC76 NIRSPEC IFU       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy         | (5) 2008FC76             |
| CENTAURS           | CHIRON NIRSPEC IFU          | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy         | (6) CHIRON               |

## ABSTRACT

Observation IDs: LUNINE_1000, LUNINE_1001, LUNINE_2000, LUNINE_3000, LUNINE_4000, LUNINE_5000, LUNINE_6000, LUNINE_7000, LUNINE_8000, LUNINE_9000, LUNINE_10000
We plan to exploit JWST's exquisite sensitivity in the 1-5 micron region to study the largest trans-Neptunian Objects and Kuiper Belt objects via reflectance spectroscopy. The composition of even the largest of these bodies is poorly constrained. We propose to use NIRSpec's IFU to obtain the first high-SNR, R > 100 spectra for a sample of these objects. MIRI spectra will also be obtained on some targets. These data can be expected to reveal the presence of previously unseen molecular ices, constrain their physical state (crystalline phase, solution with other species, temperature, grain-size), identify new organic species, and constrain isotopic ratios for some elements (H, O, C, N). MIRI MRS and Imaging data will also be used to study temperature variations on several targets, and will be interpreted in the context of existing Herschel and/or Spitzer thermal data. The targets represent a large fraction of the diversity of the Kuiper Belt in terms of collisional history (Pluto and Haumea underwent catastrophic impacts), effects of planetary migration (resonant, classical, Centaur and scattered objects), multiplicity (several host at least one moon), albedo, and major species composition (H2O, CH4, N2, NH3, CO). These objects represent the end-state of accretion and subsequent processing in the Kuiper Belt. This initial reconnaissance of their surface compositions will inform our understanding of the long history of processes in the outermost regions of the Sun's proto-planetary disk.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

HAUMEA: The keystone of the observing program of the KBO and dwarf planet Haumea are the MIRI imaging observations. These observations are designed to obtain a rotational light curve over one full rotation period of Haumea (~4 hours). Placing a time constraint on when particular observations are to be made would increase the total charged time through time critical overheads of 1 hour. Rather than do this, we chose to stare at Haumea for one entire rotation period to avoid the overheads. 14 different longitudes will be observed in the F2100W filter, and 2 longitudes, roughly corresponding to opposite hemispheres on Haumea, will be made through the F2550W filter. These filters were chosen to maximize the flux from Haumea due to the thermal peak at longer wavelengths. LRS observations are preferred over MRS observations because Haumea is too faint to make spectra at the longest MRS wavelengths worthwhile. A TA is specified in order to accurately place Haumea in the thin LRS slit. The NIRSpec IFU observations are planned with the medium resolution grating to obtain a high SNR in the near-infrared. The NRSIRS2RAPID readout mode was chosen to further increase the SNR of these spectra. We place representative phase constraints on the two groups of observations: 1, 2, & 3 and 9 & 10. These phase constraints are meant to represent observations of opposite hemispheres of Haumea, with one of those hemispheres containing the "dark spot." Accurate numbers will replace the placeholder phase constraints after a better determination of the zero-phase date is determined. These phase constraints place a time window for the observations to occur less than 24 hours, but greater than 1 hour, so will not receive a 1-hour overhead in a future version of APT. The goal is to compare the NIR and MIR spectra of these two hemispheres to determine if the composition of Haumea's surface varies in these two distinct regions.

QUAOAR: Medium resolution and PRISM observations will be made of the KBO Quaoar with the NIRSpec IFU to obtain a decent SNR. The NRSIRS2RAPID readout mode was chosen to increase the SNR of these observations. Due to the relative faintness of Quaoar, observations at the longest near-infrared wavelengths, where flux from the object is lowest, will be made with the low-resolution PRISM mode instead of the medium resolution grating. PRISM also covers the full wavelength range and will contribute to a higher SNR at the shorter wavelengths.

2008 FC76: Medium resolution observations will be made of the red Centaur 2008 FC76 with the NIRSpec IFU to obtain a decent SNR. The NRSIRS2RAPID readout mode was chosen to increase the SNR of the 2008 FC76 spectra.

PHOLUS and 2002 KY14: Medium resolution and PRISM observations will be made of the red Centaurs Pholus and 2002 KY14 with the NIRSpec IFU to obtain a decent SNR. The NRSIRS2RAPID readout mode was chosen to increase the SNR of these observations. Due to the relative faintness of these two Centaurs, observations will be made with only the PRISM mode instead of the medium resolution grating. PRISM covers the full near-infrared wavelength range.