---
id: 1284
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 19.1
program_title: "MIRI IFS of COSMOS sources COS-zs7-1 and B14-65666"
type: ""
---
# 1284 - MIRI IFS of COSMOS sources COS-zs7-1 and B14-65666
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1284
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                   | Observing Template                  | Science Target      |
| :---------------------- | :---------------------------------- | :------------------ |
| MRS-COS-zs7-1           | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) COS-ZS7-1       |
| MIRIM-COS-zs7-1         | MIRI Imaging                        | (2) COS-ZS7-1-IMA   |
| MRS-B14-65666           | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) B14-65666       |
| MIRIM-B14-65666         | MIRI Imaging                        | (4) B14-65666-IMA   |

## ABSTRACT

The sources included in this proposal have an observation ID: WRIGHT_0101 and WRIGHT_0102.

MIRI is the only instrument onboard JWST able to detect the H-alpha line for sources at redshifts beyond 7, the key diagnostic line to establish the instantaneous star formation, as well as the Ly-alpha and ionizing continuum escape fractions for sources during the Epoch of Reionization (EoR) of the universe. Deep MIRI spectroscopy of the H-alpha line with the medium resolution integral field spectrograph (MRS) of the sources COS-zs7-1 and B14-65666 will be obtained. In addition, mid-IR imaging (F560W) of the host galaxies and surrounding fields, as well as simultaneous MIRI imaging of nearby fields will be taken.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The proposal includes two targets in the COSMOS field, COS-zs7-1 and B14-65666. The total time has therefore been increased over the original time allocated to this proposal while the total time dedicated to the entire MRS high-z program is within the allocated time.

This program observes one confirmed Ly-alpha emitter (COS-zs7-1), and one [OIII] emitter (B14-65666) with redshifts of 7.15. The purpose of the program is to get the H-alpha emission line as well as other metallic lines ([NII] and [SII]) with the MRS using the SHORT wavelength configuration. Simultaneous imaging with the imager (MIRIM) of nearby fields will be taken with filter F770W. In addition, a short F560W image of the host galaxy and surrounding field will also be taken.

A combination of dithering strategies (4-pt+4-pt, point source) have been selected to optimize the PSF and detector effects for the MRS channel 1. The PA constraint (108 < PA_V3 < 110) has been selected to avoid bright stars that can saturate the simultaneous IMAGER observations. An additional constraint in the observing dates (6-Apr to 15-May) have been requested to be in a low background regime.