---
id: 1286
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "Nora Luetzgendorf"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 148.6
program_title: "NIRCam-NIRSpec Galaxy Assembly Survey - GOODS-S - Part #2"
type: ""
---
# 1286 - NIRCam-NIRSpec Galaxy Assembly Survey - GOODS-S - Part #2
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1286
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label             | Observing Template              | Science Target                      |
| :---------------- | :------------------------------ | :---------------------------------- |
| f1 d1 replan      | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (9) MERGED-TRIMMED-NIRCAM-CAT-V1 |
| f2                | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (11) 1286 4of6 trim clean           |
| f3                | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (11) 1286 4of6 trim clean           |
| f4                | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (11) 1286 4of6 trim clean           |
| f5                | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (10) 1286 medium jwst trim2 clean1 |
| f6                | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (11) 1286 4of6 trim clean           |
| f7 (Obs 7 final)  | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (12) 1286 7and8 trim final clean    |
| f8 (Obs 8 final)  | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (12) 1286 7and8 trim final clean    |

---

## ABSTRACT

We will conduct an ambitious deep-field survey to study the formation and evolution of galaxies from z 12 to z 2. Our program combines NIRSpec, NIRCam, and MIRI data, alongside the deepest data from HST, Chandra, ALMA, and JVLA, to produce an unprecedented view of high-redshift galaxies. The program is a collaboration of the NIRSpec and NIRCam GTO teams, and it combines imaging and spectroscopy as well as full use of coordinated parallel observations to get the best out of all three instruments. Indeed, to pursue a detailed understanding of galaxy evolution, the combination of imaging and spectroscopy is critical. By bringing these data sets together on a single field, we will carry out systematic investigations far beyond the sum of the parts. This survey will provide the rest-frame optical data of sufficient area, depth, and spectral resolutions to map galaxy population properties, including the joint distribution of stellar mass, luminosity, star formation rate, stellar ages, sizes, metallicity, nuclear activity, gas kinematics, and outflows, over a wide range of redshifts. Broadly speaking, spectroscopy (at R = 100, 1000, and 2700) provides precise and robust redshifts, measurement of the stellar continuum, and emission lines to z 10 and beyond. The emission lines allow us to diagnose the galaxies' star formation rate (SFR), metallicities, chemical abundances, the ISM dust-reddening, and the ISM excitation, including signatures of AGNs. Low-resolution spectroscopy (R=100) for the brighter objects can also diagnose the stellar populations (especially the stellar age distribution). High-resolution spectroscopy (R=2700) can diagnose internal galaxy kinematics and outflows. The multi-wavelength NIRCam imaging will allow the detection, selection and characterization of galaxies to z = 15 and perhaps beyond. It will determine colors, morphological structure, and color gradients, while supplying photometric redshifts, stellar mass, and star formation rate estimates along with measures of equivalent widths of the strongest emission lines. The depth reached is unparalleled and will lead to luminosity functions to substantially higher redshift and lower mass than can be done with HST. Deep MIRI imaging will enable a rest-frame infrared view of subset of our sample, testing the assumptions of our UV/optical modeling and revealing heavily obscured stellar populations and nuclear activity. Combination with external data from Chandra, JVLA, and ALMA will further explore nuclear activity and dusty star formation. We expect that this carefully constructed survey will provide a primary legacy dataset for many years to come.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Program 1286 is NIRSpec MSA follow-up of the NIRCam "pre-imaging" Program 1180, so has a scheduling link with that program. Observations 1 and 5 can be observed any time after 60 days after completion of observations 7, 10, 15 and 18 of program 1180. The other six observations should be observed after full completion of Program 1180. This file contains part of the "NIRSpec follow-up" phase and includes 8 NIRSpec Medium/JWST observations with NIRCam in parallel. Ideally all observations in 1286 would be executed at the same PA to maximize the area covered by MSA observations and NIRCam parallels in our tiling scheme. However we realise this may be difficult to schedule so have split them into two halves where each half has a same PA link. This constraint can be relaxed if necessary. For observations 1 and 5 we have removed the PA link to other observations to facilitate scheduling. **Medium/JWST** NIRSpec GTO team observations of GOODS-S with NIRCam in parallel. Mosaic positions correct for V3PA=280 (NIRSpec MSA PA=58.5). All positions need to be changed for any other PA. **A note on NIRSpec MSA catalog and configurations** A dummy, very small catalog was used to prepare these configurations to avoid the problem of slow loading of APT files with large catalogs used in many MSA configurations. A real target catalog is included in the MPT part of the APT file, but was not used in these dummy configurations. The actual targets entering the MSA shutters will be defined, with target prioritisation, only after the instrument distortion is characterized during commissioning, and after analysis of NIRCam pre-imaging.