---
id: 1293
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 11.4
program_title: "Collimation Zone in Protostellar Jets, the Final Frontier. MIRI MRS and Imager Simultaneous Observations"
type: ""
---
# 1293 - Collimation Zone in Protostellar Jets, the Final Frontier. MIRI MRS and Imager Simultaneous Observations
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1293
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                   | Observing Template                     | Science Target            |
| :---------------------- | :------------------------------------- | :------------------------ |
| HH111 IFU               | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (1) HH-111-IRS            |
| HH111_IFU_Background    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (4) BACKGROUND+CLEAN      |
| HH110_MIR_NIRCAM        | MIRI Imaging                           | (3) HH110BOW              |

---

## ABSTRACT

Proto-stellar jets arising from young stellar objects (YSOs) have been studied in exquisite detail over the past 50 years. We understand in depth their emission mechanism, their interaction with the Interstellar medium and the role that they play in the formation of low/intermediate mass proto-stars. We do have reasonable models of the launching mechanisms that are "propelling" these highly collimated outflows, however the observational evidence to test the models is quite scarce, due in grand part that the star formation process takes place at high optical depths (>30mag), and we have lacked the of the sub-arcsecond angular resolution that is needed at wavelengths longer than 5micron [something that interferometric observatories like ALMA are currently addressing]. A second issue has been 'saturation', since most of the sources driving the jets can be quite bright at infrared wavelengths, and studying the morphology & physics of the emitting central region (few AUs) has been extremely challenging. I believe that understanding observationally the collimation of proto-stellar jets, in the frame of physics of the formation of low mass stars, is one of the "final frontiers" to be reached in this field. In this program I will carry out high signal-to-noise observations with MIRI MRS of one outflow jet source (originally identified as "Class 0/I") detected by Spitzer IRAC at 5.8 & 8 micron) to study the kinematics of their extended emission as close as possible to the source and analyze the excited emission of the atomic/ionic/molecular gas. The source I selected is HH111-IRS in the L1617 cloud in Orion (~400pc away).

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

GTO program to study the collimation of jets at the source. In this program I will carry out high signal-to-noise observations with MRS of one outflow jet source (originally identified as "Class 0/I") detected by Spitzer IRAC at 5.8 & 8 micron) to study the kinematics of their extended emission as close as possible to the source and analyze the excited emission of the atomic/ionic/molecular gas. The source I selected is HH111-IRS in the L1617 cloud in Orion (~400pc away). In this system precession of the jet has been measured (Noriega-Crespo et al. 2011) and so we know that binary interaction may be playing a major role (Fig 1) in its development. We propose to complement the MIRI MRS data with coordinated NIRCAM parallel observations of the jet itself on one of its strongest H2 emission lines (2.12um) with the goal to tight together the kinematical observations at the source with those of the outflow itself over large distances. The observations will cover the full wavelength range available with MRS, where we do know a wealth of ro-vibrational molecular hydrogen lines are included, as well as some of the classical gas shock excited tracers like [NeII] 12.8um & [NeIII] 15.55um, plus the low excitation [Fe II] lines at 5.34, 24.51 & 25.98 um. All of them usable to infer the physical conditions of the atomic/molecular gas in the jet flow. I will perform a 2-point dither sampling per pointing (optimized for extended sources) within a small mosaic (2x2 tiles) to map a broader region around their surroundings; the inner jet/outflow can be currently traced back (in the mid-IR) to a couple of arcseconds (Spitzer's IRAC spatial resolution) near the source. I will use the MIRI capability that allows the use of the Imager simultaneously with MRS. The Imager observations follow the MRS pattern and will be carried out with the shortest broad band filter (F560W) to obtain high spatial resolution images of the region on the relatively bright H2 S(7) 5.51um line that falls within its band pass. I will also use the new APT feature of flexible MRS exposure specification to add simultaneous imaging observations at F770W & F1130W. Although no dedicated background observation is being planned, I believe that the mosiac covers 'enough realstate' to use the data itself to estimate the background. Spitzer observations (IRAC & MIPS) have shown the complexity of the extended emission features around HH111 and in this sense this strategy is better (more representative of the local background) than collecting a 'clean' background observation 5 degrees away. No Target Acquisition (TA) is needed because we are aimimg to the base of the jet, not the source itself, and because this is the "collimation region" it is extended but "narrow" and standard JWST pointing accuracy (∼1/2 arcsec 1-sigma radial). In this highly collimated outflow it is over scales of hundreds of arc-seconds that one can measure the effects of what is taking place near the source; in the case HH 111 it is the jet's precession. JWST offers the capability to carry out coordinated parallel observations with NIRCam (and other JWST instruments). I believe that it would be extremely valuable to understand the jet dynamics to tight together the kinematical process of what we will observe with MIRI MRS at the source, with the morphological changes that the outflow experiences over larger scales, and that could be measured over a larger field of view using NIRCam. Fig 2. shows a snapshot of the propose observations (with a 3x3 tile mosaic). The original Spitzer images were obtained in 2005 (PID 3315; PI Noriega-Crespo), so one should be able to measure proper motions of several of the knots in the mid infrared; something that we have been able to accomplish only in another couple of systems using Spitzer data (Raga, Noriega-Crespo et al. 2013; Noriega-Crespo et al 2014).