---
id: 1304
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "Roeland van der Marel"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 4.8
program_title: "Internal Dynamics of Milky Way Dwarf Spheroidal Galaxies"
type: ""
---
# 1304 - Internal Dynamics of Milky Way Dwarf Spheroidal Galaxies
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1304
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label               | Observing Template | Science Target    |
| :------------------ | :----------------- | :---------------- |
|                     | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) DRACO-F0      |
|                     | NIRCam Imaging     | (2) DRACO-F1      |
|                     | NIRCam Imaging     | (3) DRACO-F3      |
|                     | NIRCam Imaging     | (4) SCULPTOR-F0   |
|                     | NIRCam Imaging     | (5) SCULPTOR-F1   |
| Repeat Observation 2 | NIRCam Imaging     | (2) DRACO-F1      |

## ABSTRACT

We will observe five fields in the nearest classical Milky Way dwarf spheroidal galaxies Draco and Sculptor, to study the internal PM dynamics of their stars. This will determine whether their dark halos have central cores or cusps, which provides an important constraint on the properties of dark matter and cosmological models of galaxy formation. PMs will be determined either from comparison to existing HST data, or from comparison to similar JWST observations to be obtained in GTO Cycles 2 and 3, or to be requested in future JWST GO cycles.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to measure the internal proper motion dynamics of the dwarf spheroidal galaxies Draco and Sulptor. To determine proper motion of stars in our target galaxies, we will reobserve five fields (three in the Draco, and two in the Sculptor dwarf spheroidals) with NIRCAM using F200W+F277W. We will also observe parallel fields with NIRISS using F200W.

We request that the observations be obtained early in the first part of Cycle 1, i.e., prior to Jul 15, 2022. This is important to maximize the time baseline, and hence proper motion accuracy, when compared to planned follow-up JWST observations in later cycles.