---
id: 1306
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 1.5
program_title: "Galactic Center Astrometry"
type: ""
---
# 1306 - Galactic Center Astrometry
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1306
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label       | Observing Template | Science Target      |
| :---------- | :----------------- | :------------------ |
| First visit | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) NAME-GAL-CENTER |

---

## ABSTRACT

We will observe the Galactic Center with NIRCam to study the orbits of stars around the supermassive black hole and the structure of the nuclear star cluster. We will focus on the fainter stars, which are harder to measure from the ground. We will observe through medium-band filters in order to go deep without saturating the bright stars too much. This set of observations will consitute a first epoch. The second epoch, which will be taken a few years later, will allow us to measure proper motions. This program will also constitute a demonstration of JWST's high-precision astrometric capabilities. The Coordinated Parallels for this program will have no exclusive access period.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will observe the Galactic center through medium-band filters, which will provide a nice compromise between not missing too many of the bright stars and going deep enough to provide a good complement to ground-based observations. We were able to fit in 7 secondary dithers, which should allow an exquisite reconstruction of the JWST PSF, which is of course critical to high-accuracy astrometry. NIRISS will be observed in parallel so that we can get some additional information for a nearby field. We request that the observations be obtained in the first half of Cycle 1, i.e., prior to August 2022. This is important to maximize the time baseline, and hence proper motion accuracy, when compared to planned follow-up JWST observations in later cycles.