---
id: 1411
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Coronagraphic Imaging  NIRCam/Coronagraphic Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "Christopher Stark"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 25.3
program_title: "Coronagraphy of the Debris Disk Archetype Beta Pictoris"
type: ""
---
# 1411 - Coronagraphy of the Debris Disk Archetype Beta Pictoris
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1411
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                                   | Observing Template             | Science Target               |
| :-------------------------------------- | :----------------------------- | :--------------------------- |
| Beta Pic Background 1550 4QPM           | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging     | (3) BETA-PIC-BACKGROUND      |
| Beta Pic Background 2300 Lyot           | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging     | (3) BETA-PIC-BACKGROUND      |
| Beta Pic - 2300 Lyot Roll 1             | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging     | (1) BETA-PIC                 |
| Beta Pic - 1550 4QPM Roll 1             | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging     | (1) BETA-PIC                 |
| Beta Pic - 1550 4QPM Roll 2             | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging     | (1) BETA-PIC                 |
| Beta Pic - 2300 Lyot Roll 2             | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging     | (1) BETA-PIC                 |
| Alpha Pic - 2300 Lyot PSF               | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging     | (2) ALPHA-PIC                |
| Alpha Pic - 1550 4QPM PSF               | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging     | (2) ALPHA-PIC                |
| Alpha Pic Background 1550 4QPM PSF      | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging     | (4) ALPHA-PIC-BACKGROUND     |
| Alpha Pic Background - 2300 Lyot PSF    | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging     | (4) ALPHA-PIC-BACKGROUND     |
| Alpha Pic - LW PSF                      | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging   | (2) ALPHA-PIC                |
| Alpha Pic - SW PSF                      | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging   | (2) ALPHA-PIC                |
| Beta Pic - SW Roll 1                    | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging   | (1) BETA-PIC                 |
| Beta Pic - SW Roll 2                    | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging   | (1) BETA-PIC                 |
| Beta Pic - LW Roll 2                    | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging   | (1) BETA-PIC                 |
| Beta Pic - LW Roll 1                    | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging   | (1) BETA-PIC                 |
| Alpha Pic - LW PSF                      | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging   | (2) ALPHA-PIC                |
| Alpha Pic - SW PSF                      | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging   | (2) ALPHA-PIC                |

---

## ABSTRACT

The famous debris disk around Beta Pic was the first circumstellar disk to be spatially resolved. Each successive generation of observations since then has delivered new insights into its complex structure, the physical composition of its constituent dust particles, and the physical processes that shape the disk. As one of the brightest and largest disks on the sky it remains a compelling target for detailed investigations at unprecedented sensitivities with JWST. We will observe Beta Pictoris using both the NIRCam and MIRI coronagraphs to cover the wavelength range 1.8 – 23 microns. NIRCam's F182M, F210M, F250M, F300M, F335M and F444W filters are sensitive to the presence of water and CO ices and organic tholins to allow characterization of disk composition and spatial variations. MIRI 15 and 23 micron coronagraphy will probe the warm inner asteroid belt analogue and the cooler outer main disk, respectively. These observations are coordinated with other GTO programs to ensure rich and consistent data sets across many disks: The 1.8-5 micron observations using NIRCam will be taken with the same set of filters and coronagraph masks as the NIRCam GTO team's Scattered Light Debris Disks program is using for several other disks, and our MIRI observation strategy matches that of the MIRI GTO Archetypal Debris Disk program. Furthermore spectroscopy of the Beta Pictoris disk will be obtained by MIRI science team member Christine Chen. In addition to revealing the disk in detail, our deep NIRCam F444W observations will achieve extraordinarily low detection limits to search for unknown wide-separation planetary companions, reaching well below the mass of Saturn. Note, the known planet Beta Pic b may also be observable in this program, depending on the timing of these observations relative to its orbital phase. While this program was designed originally and primarily to observe the disk, observations of Beta Pic b have become possible as a secondary goal due to the change in expected launch date.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

**SUMMARY AND OVERALL OBSERVING STRATEGY**
We observe the Beta Pictoris disk with both NIRCam and MIRI. For NIRCam observations, we observe with the 210R coronagraphic mask in two filters, and the 335R mask in 4 filters. These mask/filter combinations are the same as the NIRCam GTO team's Scattered Light Debris Disks program, ensuring a consistent data set of debris disks. For MIRI observations, we observe with the 1550 4QPM and 2300 Lyot masks.

We expect to be most sensitive to the disk at separations <5", where stellar PSF residuals will be significant. Thus, we employ the standard coronagraph sequence for every instrument/mask/filter combination observed: an initial observation oriented at a desired nominal aperture position angle, followed by a second observation with an aperture PA ~10 degrees relative to the first observation, followed by observation of the PSF reference star. All observations are linked by a non-interruptible sequence.

**ORDER OF OBSERVATIONS**
We note that there were two ways to schedule these observations. The first was to pick an ideal orient for each instrument (MIRI & NIRCam) that maximizes the spatial coverage of the disk, then schedule each instrument's observations as a non-interruptible sequence. Alternatively, we could sacrifice the orientation a bit, requiring the NIRCam and MIRI observations to be one long non-interruptible sequence, and placing the PSF reference observations in the middle, which could save some overheads. However, the second approach results in only a single 2 day scheduling window. Thus, we chose the first approach.

All NIRCam and MIRI observations are grouped separately by a "Sequence Observations, Non-Interruptible" special requirement (aka "Seq Non-Int SR") to ensure the PSF calibrator is observed close in time to the science target.

We perform the observations in an order to minimize overheads. We perform MIRI science observations of the target at both filters, then roll to our second orienation and repeat, then slew to the PSF reference star and observe in both filters. The arrangement for NIRCam is similar.

**CHOICE OF PSF STAR**
We chose Alpha Pictoris as our reference star, which is located ~19 degrees from the target star and has an overlapping visibility window. The Vizier Photometry viewer shows no obvious IR excess around Alpha Pic and it has been previously used as a PSF calibrator for Beta Pic at shorter wavelengths.

The difference in K mag between Alpha Pic and Beta Pic is ~0.9. Alpha Pic (A8V) is also fairly close in spectral type to Beta Pic (A6V), making it a good color match. This color match will minimize chromatic differences between the reference PSF and target PSF; the color match is more than adequate given previous estimates of the impact of color mismatch on NIRCam coronagraphy contrast. The color match is even less important for MIRI observations.

**EXPOSURE TIMES**
Exposure times were calculated in the JWST ETC using workbook #25161 (version 1.4), updated to #32789 (version 1.5.1).

Exposure times were calculated based on a model surface brightness. The surface brightness model came from scaling the results of Ballering et al. (2016) to other wavelengths. We used the 1.16 micron scattered light surface brightness in Fig 3 of Ballering and scaled it to other wavelengths by the flux of a stellar model of the Beta Pic star. We used the 24 micron thermal emission surface brightness in Fig 5 of Ballering and scaled it to other wavelengths based on the disk SED shown in Fig 14 of Ballering. We added the scattered light model to the thermal emission model to get the total surface brightness model at all wavelengths.

For MIRI coronagraph observations, we created a different scene for each of the observed filters. In each scene, we placed 5 extended sources (uniform brightness, 1" x 1" disk)--each source was placed at a different location and assigned a surface brightness corresponding to the model at separations of 2, 4, 6, 8, and 10". Exposure times were estimated to get high SNR on the faintest (10" separation) portions of the disk while avoiding saturation in the brighter portions, while also maintaining some balance w/ the overheads APT applied to our observations (science time to overhead time ratio is roughly 1:2).

For NIRCam coronagraph observations, we created a different scene for each of the observed filters. In each scene, we placed 5 extended sources (uniform brightness, 0.5" x 0.5" disk)--each source was placed at a different location and assigned a surface brightness corresponding to the model at separations of 1, 2, 4, 6, and 8". The readout patterns were estimated by trying to keep NGROUPS large (near 10) while avoiding saturation as much as possible (only a few partially saturated pixels). The NIRCam coronagraph ETC gave puzzling results at output, so the SNR for the disk was determined using the NIRCam imaging templates w/ identical detector parameters (and no star in the image)--this corresponds to the limit of perfect PSF subtraction and serves as a good way to estimate possible SNR. Exposure times were estimated to get high SNR on the faintest (8" separation) portions of the disk while maintaining some balance w/ the overheads APT applied to our observations (science time to overhead time ratio varies from 1:1 to 2:1).

For NIRCam coronagraphy, we created LW and SW scenes consisting of the Beta Pic target star and the Alpha Pic reference star (both point sources with spectra modeled using Phoenix stellar models of the appropriate temperatures), with 4 extended sources in the corners of the detector. The extended sources span 4 orders of magnitude in surface brightness, representing the Beta Pic disk, which varies in brightness w/ separation. The surface brightness of the 4 extended sources were normalized at 1.16 micron and were assigned a stellar spectrum, a reasonable assumption. The 1.16 micron normalization was taken from Ballering et al. (2016).

Using these scenes, we arrived at the following exposure settings. Because we are interested in the disk at a range of separations, including regions where the stellar residuals dominate, we have a large dynamic range to consider and must avoid saturation for precise PSF subtraction. Thus we avoid full saturation of the target star's speckles. We do allow a few dozen pixels to be partially saturated, under the assumption that the ramps for these pixels can be recovered by the pipeline. We note that because the target star is very bright (Kmag = 3.5), even when reading out the coronagraphic subarray in rapid, a small number of pixels may fully saturate during the NIRCam 210R observations.

**NIRCam:**
- MASK335R, F250M, SUB320, BRIGHT2, NGROUPS=10, NINTS=80 (could do SHALLOW4, but ~200 pix are partially saturated)
- MASK335R, F300M, SUB320, BRIGHT2, NGROUPS=10, NINTS=80 (could do SHALLOW4, but ~200 pix are partially saturated)
- MASK335R, F335M, SUB320, SHALLOW4, NGROUPS=10, NINTS=35
- MASK335R, F444W, SUB320, BRIGHT2, NGROUPS=10, NINTS=80 (could do SHALLOW4, but ~200 pix are partially saturated)
- MASK210R, F182M, SUB640, RAPID, NGROUPS=4, NINTS=90 <—172 partsat, 34 full sat
- MASK210R, F210M, SUB640, RAPID, NGROUPS=4, NINTS=90 <— 115 partsat, 8 full sat

For the above settings, in the absence of a contrast floor the faintest portions of the disk should be detectable at SNR~40 per resol.

14 Oct 2022 Update: Given the ~order of magnitude improvement in NIRCam 335R contrast using a SGD demonstrated during commissioning, we decided to add a 5 point SGD to the Alpha Pic reference star observation for NIRCam. We kept the total exposure time the same, which we believe will still allow significant improvements in PSF subtraction with application of the KLIP algorithm.

**MIRI:**
- 1550: 30 min of integration provides SNR~20 per resol in the faintest regions. This is roughly 50% of the overhead time, so this is a decent use of science time.
- 2300: 30 min of integration provides SNR~12 per resol in faintest regions of image. Again, roughly 50% of the overhead time according to APT.

The exposure settings chosen in terms of groups and ints were verified in the ETC to not produce any warnings other than the saturated pixel warnings received for NIRCam SW observations.

The reference PSF star (Alpha Pic) is 0.9 mag brighter than the science target, so we reduced the observations to be roughly half as long in each filter.

**ORIENTATION & TIME CONSTRAINTS**
We used the Coronagraphic Target Visibility Tool to plan the PA special requirements. The disk's midplane is at a PA of 32 degrees.

The two instruments are split into separate groups of observations, so we chose slightly different orientations for MIRI & NIRCam observations.

Because the disk is edge-on, we chose the orientation very specifically to place the disk midplane near the diagonal of the NIRCam coronagraph subarray to maximize spatial coverage, but avoid the ND spots.

For MIRI, we oriented the disk at an angle of ~45 deg from the 4QPM axes.

We also adopt a relative roll angle between observations of 10 - 14 degrees. The overlap of all of these special requirements results in a scheduling window ~2 weeks in length for each instrument.

We note that while we have specific PA range special requirements, these are not completely rigid. In the event of a TA issue or other scheduling problem, we would consider alternative orientations. For the MIRI observations in particular, we only require the disk midplane is oriented near ~45 deg from the 4QPM axes--there are several orientations acceptable, but we could only program one into APT. For NIRCam, the orientation we request is ideal, and other orientations would sacrifice some of the science; alternative orientations could be considered if absolutely necessary.

**TARGET ACQUISITION**
The orientation selected for our observations places the disk midplane in MIRI quadrants 2 and 4; we perform TA in quadrant 1.

Target acquisition exposure parameters were determined using the ETC. The JWST ETC user documentation states a min. SNR of 20 is needed.

**For MIRI...**
Beta Pic @ F1550 achieves an SNR > 100 w/ just 4 groups using the ND filter
Beta Pic @ F2300 achieves an SNR > 100 w/ just 4 groups using the ND filter
- Alpha Pic is slightly brighter and thus gets even higher SNR (>200) using just 4 groups & the ND filter

The above were calculated via ETC workbook #25161. No saturation issues are reported by the ETC.

**For NIRCam...**
- This is a bright target, so the ND filter must be used.
- For NIRCam 210R observations, the ETC indicates NGROUPS>3 with RAPID to achieve an extracted SNR > 30. We chose NGROUPS=17 which gives an extracted SNR=200 and no saturation issues.
- For the NIRCam 335R observations with RAPID, the ETC indicates that NGROUPS>9 to meet the ETC's recommended threshold of 30 for the extracted SNR. Because TA exposures are so short compared to the rest of the program (low cost), we might as well do a little better than this, so we chose NGROUPS=33 which gives an extracted SNR of 120 and no saturation.

Because Beta Pic is edge-on, we are performing TA in the quadrants that the disk does not reside in, and we do not expect to perform science in the TA quadrants, we do not require a 2nd exposure with the MIRI observations to treat persistence.

Because the reference PSF target is only a factor of 2 brighter, and we have plenty of dynamic range with TA left, we adopt the same exposure settings for the reference PSF target.

**ITEMS TO ADDRESS**
We may update the reference star at a later time, as it is currently creating fully saturated pixels in the NIRCam SW observations.