---
id: 1412
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Coronagraphic Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "Marshall Perrin"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 14.5
program_title: "Characterizing 51 Eridani Exoplanetary System"
type: ""
---
# 1412 - Characterizing 51 Eridani Exoplanetary System
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1412
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                                      | Observing Template                 | Science Target |
| :----------------------------------------- | :--------------------------------- | :------------- |
| 51 Eri - NIRCam - Roll 1 - MASK430R        | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging       | (1) 51-ERI     |
| 51 Eri - NIRCam - Roll 1 - MASKLWB         | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging       | (1) 51-ERI     |
| Ref star - NIRCam - MASK430R               | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging       | (2) HD-30562   |
| Ref star - NIRCam - MASKLWB                | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging       | (2) HD-30562   |
| 51 Eri - NIRCam - Roll 2 - MASKLWB         | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging       | (1) 51-ERI     |
| 51 Eri - NIRCam - Roll 2 - MASK430R        | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging       | (1) 51-ERI     |
| 51 Eri - NIRCam - Roll 1 - MASKLWB - Retry | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging       | (1) 51-ERI     |
| Ref star - NIRCam - MASKLWB - Retry        | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging       | (2) HD-30562   |
| 51 Eri - NIRCam - Roll 2 - MASKLWB - Retry | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging       | (1) 51-ERI     |

## ABSTRACT

The 51 Eridani system harbors one of the faintest and potentially lowest-mass exoplanets yet directly imaged. This program will observe and characterize the known planet 51 Eri b, and conduct a deep search at wide separations for fainter lower-mass planets that cannot be detected from the ground.

A key technical challenge in observing 51 Eri b is its small separation from the host star, ~0.4 arcsec. By instead positioning the target star behind the narrow end of the MASKLWB occulting wedge (a nonstandard mode but one which is possible via an already-existing pointing override available as an engineering option in APT) and using careful PSF subtraction, we will push the inner working angle in to 0.3 arcsec (~ 2 lambda/D at 4 microns). We will observe 51 Eri b in four medium band filters from 3 to 4.6 microns, all using the narrow end of the MASKLWB coronagraph occulter. In addition to its direct science results, this program will pioneer and assess performance in this new small angle observing mode to allow it to be offered to the community in future cycles.

These observations are obtained in direct partnership with the NIRCam GTO team as a single joint APT program to increase efficiency. This includes (a) deep searches for lower-mass outer planets, using the MASK430R occulter and wide filters (F356W and F444W) with NIRCam GTO time (b) and characterization of the known planet using MASKLWB, NARROW and four medium filters (F335M, F410M, F430M, F460M) with Telescope Scientist GTO time. Coordinated MIRI-US GTO observations will also study the 51 Eri system at longer wavelengths.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

**SUMMARY AND OVERALL OBSERVING STRATEGY**

This program will observe 51 Eridani using two of the NIRCam coronagraphs in six filters: MASKLWB to image the known planetary companion 51 Eri b with F335M, F410M, F430M, and F460M; and MASK430R to image the region around 51 Eridani A to look for additional faint companions further from the star in deep F356W and F444W observations. Because the companion is currently at ~0.4" and moving closer to the star in projected separation, with an expected separation in 2022.5 of 0.35" (= ~2.5 lambda/D at 4.5 microns), we will use the narrow end of the LWB coronagraph to minimize the Inner Working Angle. To achieve the best possible contrast, we will make use of Small Grid Dither technique and KLIP algorithm to build an optimal PSF reference for subtraction from each integration in our observations. We follow the recommended coronagraphic practices of observing the science target in 2 rolls and observing a nearby PSF reference star in an un-interrruptible sequence.

In addition to the intrinsic scientific value of characterizing 51 Eri, a strong secondary goal of this program is assessing coronagraphic performance and observing strategies for close-in companions. We are using an engineering mode aperture to position the star at the narrow end of the bar coronagraph. (Specifically, the "SIAF Fiducial Point Override" SR to use the NRCA5_MASKLWB_NARROW aperture point.) We recognize this is in some sense an unsupported mode, but are using our joint position as GTO observers and STScI staff scientists to demonstrate and calibrate this new mode, hopefully to allow it to be offered generally in future cycles (in a similar way to how the HST STIS BAR5 position was commissioned.)

**Ordering Of Observations**

All observations are grouped by a "Sequence Observations, Non-Interruptible" special requirement (aka "Seq Non-Int SR") to ensure the PSF calibrator is observed close in time to the science target.

Within that we order the observations to maximize efficiency by minimizing slews: We first obtain the observations uing both coronagraph masks (430R and LWB) at PA roll 1, then all observations for the PSF star, then all science observations in roll 2. By placing the PSF star in the middle and carefully selecting the order in which the MASK430R and MASKLWB observations are obtained we have tried to reduce the time delta between science observations and the PSF reference while still maintaining good efficiency by not adding more slews.

**Choice of PSF star**

We searched SIMBAD for stars of equal or slightly greater brightness within 10 degrees of the science target. We also chose to prioritize the W1-W2 color of the PSF star in order to minimize systematics in the deep search component of this program. Given those criteria our chosen PSF calibrator is HD 30562, which has an identical W1-W2 color to the science target, similar spectral type (F8V), and is relatively nearby (4 deg separation). We note that HD 30562 is itself a known exoplanet host star, with a 1.3 MJup planet in a 2.3 AU orbit, detected by radial velocity. The planet cannot be spatially resolved by JWST. Furthermore, this star's estimated age is ~4 Gyr, putting the planet below the NIRCam detection floor. The fact that this is a well studied system is valuable, since the substantial available data on this star confirms it will appear optically single at JWST's resolution.

**NOTE ON RESTRICTED FUNCTIONALITY**

As explained above this program uses the Restricted special requirement "Fiducial Point Override" to place the targets at a different location along the coronagraph bar than is nominal. After discussions with NIRCam support scientists and others here at STScI we believe this should "work as is" using the existing functionality that's already in PPS and other systems. We will gladly work with the PC and others to review things and address any issues that may arise. In particular we will want to carefully review the visit files before execution to double-check positioning of the target stars will be as desired. Thanks much.

**EXPOSURE TIMES**

**Companion Characterization:**

Exposure times were calculated in the JWST ETC assuming the companion at a separation of 1.5" and perfect subtraction. We made this decision since the narrow end of the MASKLWB is not an option via the ETC web site. We also did separate coronagraphic simulations using the Pandeia engine and Pandeia-coronagraphy Python package to more directly model the narrow occulter mode and validate our predictions for that.

Based on coronagraphy simulations, we anticipate SNR for the companion to range from ~10 to ~15 in a single roll for F335M through F460M filters. The exposure settings chosen in terms of groups and ints were verified in the ETC to not produce any warnings.

The PSF star is the same brightness as the target and thus we held the total integration time the same to ensure similar to peak-pixel intensity. However, since we are using the 5-POINT dither pattern we are reducing the ints at each dither position by ~2x to keep the total exposure time from becoming excessive ("excessive" taken to mean PSF exposure time >= 2x the total on-source science exposure time summed across the two rolls). Since the full set of PSF calibrator dither positions is combined to generate the KLIP eigenbasis, we do not need to achieve the same SNR per each individual dither position as on the science target. Specifically we expect the SNR of the PSF relative to the science target to be between 1/sqrt(5), for individual dither positions, and 5*sqrt(5), for the combined KLIP reference library mean PSF mode. We will of course assess how well this all works in practice and share best practices with the community.

**Deep Search:**

The filters were chosen to maximize the throughput for any faint companions that might be present in the field. Since this part of the program is less sensitive to PSF centering mismatch, we chose not to dither the PSF star.

**Absolute PA and PA Offset Special Requirements, and Implied Time Constraints**

We used the Coronagraphic Target Visibility Tool to plan the PA special requirements.

The scheduling window is fairly narrowly constrained because the companion is at very small angular separation and in order to make this observation feasible at all we must orient that as close as possible to perpendicular to the MASKLWB occulting bar. In circa mid 2022, the planet 51 Eri b is predicted to be at position angle ~124. The orientation of the companion away from the occulting bar is maximized right at the end of its visibility window near day of year 292. Even then it will still be a challenge.

We have set up the program to use that scheduling opportunity. With the selected PA range tolerances the scheduling window is 4 days wide; if possible we would prefer scheduling near the end of that window, with the aperture PA as high as possible. That is, we would prefer aperture PA=295 rather than 292 if that can be scheduled. At that scheduling window we can get up to 14 deg roll between the two orientations which is also beneficial.

In particular we:
*   Set "Same PA as" SRs linking the 2 science observations at each roll angle. This is to ensure consistent positioning of the target in both NIRCam datasets. It also increases observational efficiency slightly by avoiding rolls between those visits.
*   Set the "Aperture PA offset" SR between the two observations in each filter to the range 13 to 15 deg, which is near the maximum available roll.
*   Set an absolute "Aperture PA Range" SR to the range 292-296 deg for Observation 1, which positions the companion at the farthest separation from the coronagraph. Putting roll 1 near PA~296 also yields good target positioning in roll 2 as well after applying the offset SR. The 4 degree range yields about a 4 day scheduling window.

If for scheduling reasons it proves necessary to loosen constraints, we can work with our PC to adjust the Special Requirements and evaluate tradeoffs against reduced science performance by partially blocking the companion.

**Target Acquisition**

The target star is bright, ETC calculations indicate a high SNR > 100 acquisition can be obtained with the BRIGHT2 readout with groups=65, ints=1 which yields SNR~140. This high SNR should allow accurate centroiding to 1 mas or better. The exposure time is only ~6 s. We checked there is no danger of saturation, which would only happen for exposure times > 100 s. Since there is high SNR and plenty of leeway in the dynamic range we can use the same TA settings for the PSF star too without needing a separate ETC calculation.

**NOTE ON GTO TIME ACCOUNTING**

Observations 1, 3, and 6 (the MASK430R observations) should be charged to the NIRCam GTO team.
Observations 2, 4, and 5 (the MASKLWB observations) should be charged to the Telescope Scientist GTO team.
The time for the 1800s initial slew should be split evenly between the two teams.