---
id: 1413
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 11.4
program_title: "MIRI Coronagraphy of the Cold Substellar Companion GJ 758 B"
type: ""
---
# 1413 - MIRI Coronagraphy of the Cold Substellar Companion GJ 758 B
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1413
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                          | Observing Template        | Science Target      |
| :----------------------------- | :------------------------ | :------------------ |
| GJ 758 F1065 roll 1            | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging | (1) GJ-758          |
| GJ 758 F1065 roll 1            | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging | (6) GJ-758-revised  |
| GJ 758 F1140 roll 1            | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging | (1) GJ-758          |
| GJ 758 F1140 roll 1            | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging | (6) GJ-758-revised  |
| GJ 758 F1550 roll 1            | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging | (1) GJ-758          |
| GJ 758 F1550 roll 1            | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging | (6) GJ-758-revised  |
| GJ 758 F1550 roll 1 BACKGROUND | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging | (3) GJ-758-Background |
| GJ 758 F1140 roll 1 BACKGROUND | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging | (3) GJ-758-Background |
| GJ 758 F1065 roll 1 BACKGROUND | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging | (3) GJ-758-Background |
| HD 190360 F1065 (PS F star)    | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging | (2) HD-190360       |
| HD 190360 F1140 (PS F star)    | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging | (2) HD-190360       |
| HD 190360 F1550 (PS F star)    | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging | (2) HD-190360       |
| HD 190360 F1550 (PS F star) BACKGROUND | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging | (4) HD-190360-BACKGROUND |
| HD 190360 F1140 (PS F star) BACKGROUND | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging | (4) HD-190360-BACKGROUND |
| HD 190360 F1065 (PS F star) BACKGROUND | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging | (4) HD-190360-BACKGROUND |
| GJ 758 F1065 roll 2            | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging | (1) GJ-758          |
| GJ 758 F1065 roll 2            | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging | (6) GJ-758-revised  |
| GJ 758 F1140 roll 2            | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging | (1) GJ-758          |
| GJ 758 F1140 roll 2            | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging | (6) GJ-758-revised  |
| GJ 758 F1550 roll 2            | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging | (1) GJ-758          |
| GJ 758 F1550 roll 2            | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging | (6) GJ-758-revised  |

---

## ABSTRACT

The brown dwarf orbiting GJ 758 is one of the coldest sub-stellar mass companions imaged to date. Ground based near-IR photometry and spectroscopy have confirmed an effective temperature of ~700K, and identified a methane-rich atmosphere. Multi-epoch coronagraphic imaging indicates an almost edge-on and eccentric orbit, with the companion moving towards the star at a projected ~100 mas/year. While cooling-track-derived masses place this object above the purported deuterium-burning limit, it is an important benchmark since its orbit is favorable for the future determination of its dynamical mass using astrometry or radial velocity. A thorough characterization of its atmospheric properties will provide a key reference point to compare to field substellar objects of similar temperatures. Moreover understanding its composition will answer fundamental question regarding the formation of such rare objects (using “metallicity” as a proxy).

We will use the MIRI coronagraphs to obtain 10.65, 11, and 15 micron photometry of this sub-stellar companion. This will allow us to probe the ammonia abundance, and compare the properties of this cool bound substellar companion to the atmospheres observed for isolated field brown dwarfs.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

**SUMMARY AND OVERALL OBSERVING STRATEGY**

We observe this brown dwarf companion using all 3 of MIRI's FQPM coronagraphs. Because the companion is moving closer to the star in projected separation, with an expected separation in 2019 of 1” (= ~2 lambda/D at 15 microns), we will use the Small Grid Dither technique and KLIP algorithm to build an optimal PSF reference for subtraction from each integration in our observations. We follow the recommended coronagraphic practices of observing the science target in 2 rolls and observing a nearby PSF reference star in an un-interrruptible sequence.

In addition to the intrinsic scientific value of characterizing GJ 758 B (See e.g. Bowler et al. 2019 AJ 155), a strong secondary goal of this program is assessing coronagraphic performance and observing strategies, particularly for close-in companions. We therefore adopt "all the bells and whistles", including the maximal 9-position small grid dither and the use of multiple rolls on the science target. The maximum achievable instantaneous PA offset range for this target is ~12 degrees; with that available roll range, the companion's projected position will move by between 0.4 and 0.6 lambda/D for lambda=10.65 to 15.5 microns. This will necessarily result in some self-subtraction when using the other roll as part of the PSF library, which we intend to calibrate out using our forward modeling methods. We will thus be able to compare the relative performance of ADI, classical RDI, and 5- and 9-point small grid dither KLIP RDI strategies.

The PSF observations incidentally also will serve as background observations, though we expect to be contrast limited more than background limited.

**Ordering Of Observations**

All observations are grouped by a "Sequence Observations, Non-Interruptible" special requirement (aka "Seq Non-Int SR") to ensure the PSF calibrator is observed close in time to the science target.

Within that we order the observations to maximize efficiency by minimizing slews: We first obtain all 3 filters at PA roll 1, then all 3 filters in roll 2, then all 3 filters for the PSF star. We debated whether to place the block of 3 PSF star observations at the end, or in between the two science rolls. For now we opted to place it in the middle (following e.g. typical HST best practices with STIS). The delta time between putting the PSF star in the middle or at the end is negligible; < 100 s. (A very different possibilty would be grouping together the 3 observations in each filter, which would add about 4800 s more total slew time. We would only consider that if commissioning results show the telescope to be substantially less stable with time than it was designed to be.)

**Choice of PSF star**

We searched SIMBAD for stars of equal or slightly greater brightness within 10 degrees of the science target. (We did not seek out PSF stars more than 1 mag brighter than the science target in order to minimize any potential systematics from drastically changing the ratio of stellar flux to thermal background flux, since the PSF subtraction process must account for both of those effects.) While matching spectral type is less critical for MIRI's relatively narrow FQPM filters we also prioritized getting a good spectral match, in part as a convenience since it allows for a nearly constant flux ratio between the target and calibrator to simplify exposure planning.

Given those criteria our chosen PSF calibrator is HD 190360 (=GJ 777 A), which is 0.4 mag brighter than the science target, a close match in spectral type and color, and is relatively nearby (9 deg separation). We note that HD 190360 is itself a known exoplanet host star, with a 1.6 MJup planet in a 4 AU orbit plus an inner Neptune-mass planet. Neither planet cannot be spatially resolved by JWST, with projected separations < 1 lambda/D at MIRI wavelengths. Furthermore, this star's estimated age is > 6-7 Gyr, putting even the Jovian planet below MIRI's detection floor. The fact that this is a well studied system is valuable, since the substantial available data on this star confirms it will appear optically single at JWST's resolution. It does have a suspected comoving companion red dwarf GJ 777B, but at a very wide separation that places it outside of the MIRI coronagraphic field of view entirely.

**PA Special Requirements, and Implied Time Constraints**

We used the Coronagraphic Target Visibility Tool to plan the PA special requirements. The companion's PA in roughly the middle of Cycle 1 (epoch 2022.5) will be ~ 223 deg. Separation approx 1.4 arcsec. See Bowler et al. 2018.

There are 3 good scheduling windows, which placing the companion in 3 different detector quadrants. The middle one (near day of year 200) is best because we can get 12 deg roll there but at the extremes of the visibility period it's down to 9 deg roll. We have set up the program to use that scheduling opportunity. If for scheduling reasons it proves necessary to loosen constraints or to use one of the other opportunities (near day of year 110 or 290), we can work with our PC to adjust the Special Requirements accordingly.

In particular we:
- Set "Same PA as" SRs linking the 3 science observations at each roll angle. This is to ensure consistent positioning of the target in all 3 MIRI datasets. It also increases observational efficiency slightly by avoiding rolls between those visits.
- Set the "Aperture PA offset" SR between the two observations in each filter to the range 11 to 14 deg. The maximum available roll appears to be ~ 12.5 deg according to the CTVT. (Given the "Same PA as" SRs, it is a bit redundant to repeat this SR for all 3 filters. But leaving it off produces a warning in APT, so we went with the redundant approach.)
- Set an absolute "Aperture PA Range" SR to the range 173-183 deg for Observation 1, which positions the companion in quadrant 2 well away from the FQPM boundaries. Putting roll 1 near PA~170 also yields good target positioning in roll 2 as well after applying the offset SR. The ten degree range yields about a 10 day scheduling window.

The above PAs are only slightly changed from the prior version of this program: The companion moves in PA from about 215 deg to 223 deg during this latest 3 year delay in the timing of Cycle 1.

**EXPOSURE TIMES, GROUPS, AND INTS**

Exposure times were calculated in the JWST ETC using workbook #25164). In F1065 and F1150 an exposure time of ~ 600 s yields predicted SNR ~ 47 and 67 respectively in one roll, or ~ 66 and 93 combined across the two rolls. Our key goal is comparing the 10.65 and 11.5 micron measurements to measure the NH3 absorption, so to minimize systematics between those filters we use the same readout settings in both filters. We note that these are the optimistic photon-noise-limited SNRs, and in practice systematics from imperfect PSF subtraction and other calibrations (e.g. overall photometric calibration of MIRI) will also contribute limits, plausibly at a level of a few percent; by aiming for photon-limited SNR > 50 in the roll-combined data we seek to ensure the statistical photon noise is low enough to be below the likely systematic noise terms. In F1550 with the much higher thermal background an exposure time of ~850 s yields predicted SNR ~ 24 in one roll, or 34 in the two rolls combined, which is sufficient for our science goals in constraining the long wavelength continuum.

For F1065 and F1150 we adopt 575 s (Groups=600, Ints=4 with FAST readout of the coronagraphic subarrays). Those fill the detector to 0.83 and 0.61 of saturation, respectively. For F1550 we increase the Ints by 50% to partially make up for the higher thermal background. The specific exposure settings chosen were verified in the ETC to not produce any warnings. In 600 groups the peak pixel will remain < 20% of full well so there is no danger of saturation in F1550. As noted above each filter is repeated in two observations at different rolls.

The PSF star is 0.4 mag brighter than the science target (=45%; checked at both 2MASS and WISE bands), so we adjust the integration time to be 1/1.45 ~ 0.68x as long in each filter, to achieve similar peak count per integration in the PSF star as in the science target.

Since we are using the 9-point SGD option, we also reduce the number of ints per dither position by 2x to keep the total exposure time from becoming excessive ("excessive" taken to mean PSF exposure time >= 2x the total on-source science exposure time summed across the two rolls). Since the full set of PSF calibrator dither positions is combined to generate the KLIP eigenbasis, we do not need to achieve the same SNR per each individual dither position as on the science target. Specifically we expect the SNR of the PSF relative to the science target to be between 1/sqrt(2), for individual dither positions, and 3*sqrt(2), for the combined KLIP reference library mean PSF mode. If we oversimplfy and say that the subtracted PSF is a linear combination of 4 of the 9 dither positions, the SNR should be approximately comparable on the PSF star and science target. (This isn't a fully rigorous justification; experience will help show what works well in terms of balancing time when taking 9 point dithers.) We will of course assess how well this all works in practice and share best practices with the community.

**TARGET ACQUISITION**

The target star is bright so we have to use the ND filter for TA. ETC calculations indicate a high SNR acquisition can be obtained with groups=45, ints=1 which yields SNR~260. Given MIRI's pixel scale this high SNR should allow centroiding to 1 mas or better. The exposure time is only 10 s. We checked there is no danger of saturation, which would only happen for exposure times > 100 s. Since there is high SNR and plenty of leeway in the dynamic range we can use the same TA settings for the PSF star too without needing a separate ETC calculation.

The companion is at position angle ~215. As noted above there are 3 good scheduling windows placing the companion in 3 detector quadrants. The middle one (near day of year 200, placing the companion in quadrant 2) is best because we can get 12 deg roll there but at the extremes of the visibility period it's down to 9 deg roll. With the companion in quadrant 2, we can leave the TA in the default quadrant 1.