---
id: 1424
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Leigh Fletcher"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "10"
program_title: "Extreme Events on Gas Giants: Impacts and Storm Eruptions"
type: "GO, Non-Disruptive ToO"
---
# 1424 - Extreme Events on Gas Giants: Impacts and Storm Eruptions
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1424
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                      | Observing Template              | Science Target                     |
| :------------------------- | :------------------------------ | :--------------------------------- |
| JupiterMIRI-Trigger        | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) JUPITER-TARGET                 |
| MIRI Background            | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) JUPITER-BACKGROUND             |
| JupiterNIRSPEC-Trigger     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy        | (6) JUPITER-TARGET-NIRSPEC         |
| JupiterNIRSPEC-Trigger     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy        | (7) JUPITER-TARGET-LOC2-NIRSPEC    |
| SaturnMIRI-Trigger         | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) SATURN-TARGET                  |
| MIRI Background            | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) SATURN-BACKGROUND              |
| SaturnNIRSPEC-Trigger      | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy        | (8) SATURN-TARGET-NIRSPEC          |
| SaturnMIRI-Trigger         | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) SATURN-TARGET                  |
| MIRI Background            | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) SATURN-BACKGROUND              |
| SaturnNIRSPEC-Trigger      | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy        | (8) SATURN-TARGET-NIRSPEC          |
| JupiterMIRI-Trigger        | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) JUPITER-TARGET                 |
| MIRI Background            | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) JUPITER-BACKGROUND             |
| JupiterNIRSPEC-Trigger     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy        | (6) JUPITER-TARGET-NIRSPEC         |
| JupiterNIRSPEC-Trigger     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy        | (7) JUPITER-TARGET-LOC2-NIRSPEC    |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose a non-disruptive target of opportunity proposal to observe the aftermath of giant impact events or storm plumes on Jupiter and Saturn. Although such events are likely to occur within the foreseen lifetime of JWST, they remain impossible to predict in advance. JWST could provide spectroscopic maps of reflected sunlight (NIRSPEC) and thermal emission (MIRI), allowing us to derive the 3D structure of temperatures, winds, chemical composition and aerosols associated with these unique and rare events. For planetary impacts, the distribution of energy and chemicals (like ammonia) from the impact can reveal the impactor direction, penetration, and tensile strength; the reducing or oxidising chemistry can reveal the water content of the impactor; and the silicate debris can reveal its origins and chemical make-up. For giant planet storms, the thermal structure can reveal the energy released by the storm and the vigour of the rising motions; while the presence of unusual chemicals and aerosols can reveal the processes shaping jovian meteorology and provide a unique window onto the chemistry of the deeper, sub-cloud regions. The ToO will specifically target spectroscopy that cannot be reliably obtained from Earth, and will be supported by ground-based observations tracking the evolving impact/storm morphology. Only large impacts with early signs of debris, or significant and rare storms (particularly on Saturn), will be considered for this JWST trigger.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Target of Opportunity Proposal to observe impact debris or significant storm plumes on Jupiter and Saturn.

*   Observations have been designed for both planets, although the time request is based on the larger of the two requests. Note that this request is for a SINGLE trigger of EITHER Jupiter OR Saturn, so the total time request is smaller than that given in APT. Specifically:

    *   Jupiter Trigger One: 5.0 hours (with smart accounting applied).
    *   Jupiter Follow up: 5.0 hours.

    *   Saturn Trigger One: 3.8 hours (with smart accounting applied).
    *   Saturn Follow up: 3.8 hours.

Thus the total time requested is 10.0 hours (to cover the Jupiter trigger). Both planets have two epochs defined, in the hope that the impact/storm can be acquired twice within 7-14 days.

NOTES:

1.  **NIRSPEC POINTINGS:** As the NIRSPEC FOV is the smallest of the modes proposed here, the Jupiter trigger features two NIRSPEC observations ~10 degrees longitude apart, to ensure that we capture the full extent of any impact scar or plume outbreak. This is not necessary for the smaller angular size of Saturn.

2.  **DITHERING:** All observations use a 4-point dither for an extended source, but given that Jupiter and Saturn are rotating, software is being developed to allow us to properly coadd the sequence of dithers and integrations.

3.  **LOCATION:** A dummy location has been specified for the purposes of submission, precise targetting will be provided at the time of the trigger. Note that we request the impact/storm location to be observed close to the central meridian, so a negative source-target separation constraint has been used to ensure that the target is nowhere near the planetary limb.

4.  **BACKGROUND:** A single MIRI background frame (an offset to sky, 90" away from Jupiter or Saturn) should be acquired to characterise any anomalous slopes or contributions. This should be executed as near as possible to the science frames. Given the brightness of Jupiter and Saturn, we do not foresee the need for background observations with NIRSPEC.

5.  **GROUPS:** As some regions of Jupiter's spectrum (particularly those beyond 11 µm) are likely to saturate in the second group, we have set ngroups=5 (the minimum possible, with the expectation that the final group will be saturated and discarded) and used sufficient iterations to build up our signal-to-noise. For the brightest regions, this will allow us to subsample the exposure time to create sharper images (Jupiter's rotation will cause blur during the science exposures).