---
id: 1433
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging  NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Dan Coe"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "11.3"
program_title: "Physical Properties of the Triply-Lensed z = 11 Galaxy"
type: "GO"
---
# 1433 - Physical Properties of the Triply-Lensed z = 11 Galaxy
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1433
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                  | Observing Template              | Science Target             |
| :--------------------- | :------------------------------ | :------------------------- |
| NIRCam Imaging         | NIRCam Imaging                  | (1) MACS0647+7015          |
| NIRCam Imaging         | NIRCam Imaging                  | (1) MACS0647+7015          |
| NIRSpec MSA 1          | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (11) MACS0647-MSA-TARGETS  |
| NIRSpec MSA 2          | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (11) MACS0647-MSA-TARGETS  |
| NIRSpec MSA 3          | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (23) MACS0647-MSA-OBS23    |

---

## ABSTRACT

The z = 11.1 galaxy MACS0647-JD is one of the two most distant objects known. It is strongly lensed by a foreground cluster to form three images, with AB mag = 25.9, 26.1, and 27.3, which enables a detailed study with JWST. This provides us with a unique opportunity to begin to study the early phases of galaxy formation at the cosmic age of only 400 Myr, aided by nature's own cosmic lens. Despite the magnification, the system is spatially unresolved with HST, which means its radius must be < 100 pc, the size of Giant Molecular Clouds. Packed into that small radius is a significant stellar mass (1e7 – 1e9 Msun) that is producing new stars at a rate of a few Msun / yr. Our proposed NIRCam and NIRSpec observations will allow us to obtain significant new insights into the nature of this young galaxy that are beyond the reach of current facilities, including:
1) A precise spectroscopic redshift from one or more lines
2) More precise measurements of the SFR, stellar mass, age, and dust extinction
3) Delensed spatial resolution down to 30 pc to estimate the galaxy's effective radius and constrain the properties of smaller structures within
4) First constraints on metallicity and ionizing strength of a galaxy at z=11
In addition to the z=11 galaxy, we will study the large number of (~30) known z ~ 6 – 8 candidates in this field plus new discoveries of fainter candidates at z ~ 6-11 and perhaps beyond in this exceptional strong lensing field. We waive exclusive access to all data obtained from this program, and will release reduced data products, lens models, and analysis notebooks to aid the community.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We are obtaining NIRCam imaging and NIRSpec MSA prism on one target field: MACS0647. Epoch 1 obtained NIRCam imaging in 6 wide filters. Epoch 2 will obtain imaging in 2 filters (repeating F200W and adding F480M) and NIRSpec MSA spectroscopy.
The NIRCam imaging is serving as pre-imaging for NIRSpec. Despite the limited coverage, it should yield sufficient reference objects, including both stars and compact galaxies. NIRSpec MSA will follow at least 60 days later.
This APT resubmission includes fully prepared NIRSpec MSA PRISM observations.
- Obs 21: single slitlets; 2 dithers = 2 MSA configurations
- Obs 22: FAILED
- Obs 23: 3-slitlet nods

The primary science targets are multiply-lensed images of a z = 11 galaxy MACS0647-JD. The primary goal is to detect one or more spectral emission lines. This is not guaranteed. Line strengths and signal-to-noise estimates are uncertain, and in some cases we don't have much margin.
We prioritize coverage of the red end of the spectra 4.5 -- 5.3 microns where we cover our best hopes to detect one or more lines: [OII], NeIII, and H gamma (rest-frame 3700 -- 4400 Angstroms). (We do not prioritize the Lyman break that should be observed around ~1.5 microns, nor Lyman alpha which should be absorbed by the IGM.) Our spectra are being dispersed towards the SW, and each PRISM trace covers the length of one MSA footprint.
This requires compromises. Most significantly, we focus on the brighter lensed images JD1 and JD2, and we do not cover the fainter JD3. We do stretch a bit to cover a lensed z = 5 star candidate (similar to Earendel at z = 6) in one of the two observations. Thus, 3 of our spectra (2 for JD1 + 1 for JD2) will have full red coverage, while the 4th may lose H gamma in one observation, depending on the redshift (e.g., z ~ 10.6 vs. 11.1).
We also avoid a bright 8th magnitude star, avoiding the MSA FOV in all exposures. We interleave our 2 MSA configurations to cover area, including some of the "other" NIRCam module offset from the lensing cluster observing mostly "blank" sky.
NIRCam imaging revealed the lensed z=11 galaxy JD to be two clumps (or merging galaxies). We target the brighter clump A. The fainter clump B is observed only ~0.2" away and its light may contribute to some of the spectra. It falls within our JD2 slits; not JD1.
Our MSA catalogs include entries for blank sky regions where we will obtain spectra to measure backgrounds. Defined simply on a grid, some could contain objects, yielding serendipitous spectra.
The catalogs also include reference objects, measured to be compact (or have compact cores) and isolated as determined in NIRCam images and HST images (obtained in 2006 and 2011) for wider coverage. All HST and JWST images were aligned to Gaia DR3 before analysis.