---
id: 1453
proposal_type: "calibration"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: ""
program_title: "CAL-NRC-001  Dark Current and Read-Noise Monitor"
type: ""
---
# 1453 - CAL-NRC-001  Dark Current and Read-Noise Monitor
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1453
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :---- | :----------------- | :------------- |
| 11 A  | NIRCam Dark        | NONE           |
| 12 B  | NIRCam Dark        | NONE           |
| 15 A  | NIRCam Dark        | NONE           |
| 16 B  | NIRCam Dark        | NONE           |
| 17 A  | NIRCam Dark        | NONE           |
| 18 B  | NIRCam Dark        | NONE           |
| 19 A  | NIRCam Dark        | NONE           |
| 20 B  | NIRCam Dark        | NONE           |
| 21 A  | NIRCam Dark        | NONE           |
| 22 B  | NIRCam Dark        | NONE           |

## ABSTRACT

This program monitors the FULL frame noise properties by taking dark observations throughout Cycle 1 using the equivalent of every readout pattern. The Darks are set up to characterize the dark current, 1/f noise, IPC, cross-talk, and superbias. We note that the dark current itself is so low (1.9/27 e-/ks for the shortwave/longwave channel) that achieving a good S/N per pixel is prohibitive for the shortwave channel. However, hot pixels are still characterized, and the overall temporal evolution of the dark current can be monitored with the median of the full frame. For this activity, the pupil wheels will be set to the “Dark” position. Subarray darks are obtained in NIRCam-016. This calibration program is provisional and may change in response to system developments and the final science program.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Nov 2019 MBoyer
APT allows ramps as long as 4152s, but this program restricts the Darks to 150 frames/ramp (1605s) since we generally recommend keeping ramps ~<1500s. This will be revisited later if approved science programs in Cycle 1 require longer ramps. The RAPID pattern with 108 groups (to be consistent with CV3) can be used to reconstruct the BRIGHT1, BRIGHT2, SHALLOW2, SHALLOW4, MEDIUM2, and MEDIUM8 readout patterns since they all require <100 frames. To reconstruct the DEEP patterns, we have two options: (1) use RAPID with NGROUP=150 (to achieve DEEP2/8 with NGROUP=8, or 1520s/1583s), or (2) use DEEP2/8 with NGROUP=8 in addition to the RAPID-108 observations. The first option uses less time, the second option uses less data volume. This program is designed following the first option because, at the time of writing, the JWST pipeline requires dark reference files to be in RAPID.

The large data volume in RAPID mode requires the modules (5 detectors each) to be observed separately. The DEEP patterns (if used) can be observed using both modules simultaneously.

To construct a superbias, we require multiple integrations that we will build up over Cycle 1, while also monitoring read noise. We will aim for 10 ramps in each module to enable a decrease in the noise by a factor of ~3. To achieve this, we'll include 5 sets throughout Cycle 1, each with 2 integrations.

TIMING CONSTRAINTS: Darks should be repeated in order to see how the noise properties depend on telescope temperature, attitude, downlink activity, cross-talk during parallels, etc. The read noise was stable over 4 months between CV2 and CV3, so we require monitoring on a 4 month timescale to check stability. We are obtaining Darks in 5 epochs total to avoid issues with data volume one epoch should be taken roughly during months 1, 4, 8, and 12. The fifth epoch can be taken at any time.