---
id: 1475
proposal_type: "calibration"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: ""
program_title: "CAL-NRC-002  Sky Flat Field Monitor"
type: ""
---
# 1475 - CAL-NRC-002  Sky Flat Field Monitor
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1475
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label             | Observing Template | Science Target      |
| :---------------- | :----------------- | :------------------ |
| Monitor w/ NIRISS | NIRCam Imaging     | (4) ECLIPTIC-RA00   |
| Monitor w/ NIRISS | NIRCam Imaging     | (6) ECLIPTIC-RA40   |
| Monitor w/ NIRISS | NIRCam Imaging     | (8) ECLIPTIC-RA80   |
| Monitor w/ NIRISS | NIRCam Imaging     | (10) ECLIPTIC-RA120 |
| Monitor w/ NIRISS | NIRCam Imaging     | (12) ECLIPTIC-RA160 |
| Monitor w/ NIRISS | NIRCam Imaging     | (14) ECLIPTIC-RA200 |

## ABSTRACT

Instead of taking dedicated sky flats during Cycle 1, we will use the deep field GTO data to reconstruct P-flats in a subset of filters. Analysis of the CV3 flats suggest wavelength dependence in the P-flat is generally <1% in all detectors (though it appears to reach as high as 2% in some pixels on the tail-end of the distribution), so there is no need to take additional flats in the remaining filters unless on-sky commissioning data present different results. Since we cannot control when the GTO data are obtained, we will also monitor the stability of the sky flats with the F150W and F444W filter pair. We will obtain 6 epochs, which are scheduled in parallel with NIRISS sky flats. Large scale frequency variations in the NIRCam illumination pattern (L-flats) will be measured in CAL-NIRCAM-003, in combination with the data from this program.
This calibration program is provisional and may change in response to system developments and the final science program.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

CAL-NIRCAM-002: NIRCam Sky Flat Field Monitor

Baseline sky flats will be constructed from GTO data of deep fields. This program will monitor the stability of the sky flats in the F150W and F444W filters over 6 epochs throughout Cycle 1. Each epoch uses the DEEP8 pattern with NGROUP=4 and a 17-point INTRASCA dither, for a total exposure time of ~12,500s. This provides roughly 5000 e-/pix in F090W and 34,000 e-/pix in F444W, assuming a high-background region near the Galactic plane.

NIRISS flats are taken in parallel -- two epochs in F200W, and one epoch each for F090W, F115W, F150W, and F444W.

Targets selected for an Oct 31, 2021 launch date.

A Special Requirement is set to space the epochs throughout Cycle 1.

UPDATE Jan 21, 2022 MBoyer:
Updated timing constraint and target selection for the Dec 25 launch

UPDATE Jun 29, 2022 MBoyer:
-Changed primary dither from small --> medium
-Adjusted targets slightly to avoid what look like extended galaxies