---
id: 1478
proposal_type: "calibration"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: ""
program_title: "CAL-NRC-006  Persistence Characterization"
type: ""
---
# 1478 - CAL-NRC-006  Persistence Characterization
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1478
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                           | Observing Template             | Science Target   |
| :------------------------------ | :----------------------------- | :--------------- |
| Set pupils to FLAT              | NIRCam Dark                    | NONE             |
| Pre-illumination Dark modB      | NIRCam Dark                    | NONE             |
| Pre-illumination Dark modA      | NIRCam Dark                    | NONE             |
| Illumination & post-illumination darks | NIRCam Engineering Imaging | (3) NGC-5139     |
| Photometric exposure            | NIRCam Imaging                 | (3) NGC-5139     |

---

## ABSTRACT

This program characterizes the NIRCam persistence (latent images) and checks for changes since the commissioning persistence check. The plan is to observe a rich stellar field, e. g. Omega Cen or 47 Tuc, with a long enough exposure time to probe a wide range of over-saturation levels, followed by a series of darks and a final short dithered sequence in a narrow-band filter to recover the source photometry. The illumination exposure is preceded by a series of dark integrations providing a baseline measure of the dark and noise floor and verify that no persistence from previous observations has been imprinted on the detector. The length of this preliminary dark can be shortened if scheduling can guarantee that the detector has not been exposed in the previous ~10,000s. The dark has to be taken “on site”, i.e. after the target has been acquired. This is needed to prevent spurious exposure to bright sources during the telescope slew and target acquisition maneuver.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This calibration program is provisional and may change in response to system developments and the final science program.

**June 29, 2022 MBoyer**
Edited program based on Commissioning information. New program:
-Obs 8: Short dark to set pupils to flat, wait 1-2 days w/ exclusive use of NRC
-Obs 12/13: FULL frame darks, each module separately, RAPID 75 groups
-Obs 14: Illumination exposure, followed by some RAPID darks, followed by some BRIGHT1 darks. All use both modules simultaneously, FULL frame.
-Obs 15: Short exposure in a few filters to get some accurate photometry.
Note obs 4-7 did not execute b/c they were removed from OP before execution. (We've since removed those obs from the APT file)

**Nov 2019 MBoyer**
The core of Omega Cen may represent an ideal target, as it contains a multitude of stars brighter than F160W~15.7 (see Figure 1), roughly corresponding to the NIRCam saturation level in the first 10s frame. Therefore, a single “light on” exposure of this star field in BRIGHT1 mode, lasting ~430s is sufficient to saturate down to F160W~18.2, ie. almost all points sources shown in Figure 1 (see activity summary), with the brightest ones reaching 2000 times the well depth. We expect around 2000 saturated stars per SW detector.
Following the illuminated exposure, three set of darks can be taken:
1) First, 3 RAPID integrations for all detectors; this must be limited to 2 groups each (~20s) and will be used to capture the initial strong decay of persistence.
2) Second, SHALLOW2 integration with 10 groups (about 9 minutes). The first integration, starting about 60s after the RAPID set, captures the more typical case: a delay of a few tens of seconds corresponds to the time needed to dither the telescope. We prefer the SHALLOW2 pattern instead of the SHALLOW4 pattern, that would delivers lower readout noise, because averaging their values over ~40s by grouping 4 frames may affect the estimate of the parameters.
3) Third, a longer exposure made of 10 SHALLOW4 integration with 10 groups (about 90 min total); moving to longer times the persistence becomes lower and is preferable to coadd 4 frames to beat down the readout noise. Also, once the slope has flattened out the effect of frame averaging becomes marginal.
During the darks the telescope can be moved around, in the case another instrument is used as prime on the outer cluster regions..

The last observation is a dithered sequence of short RAPID integrations in a narrow band filter, e.g. F212N. Photometry of the sources is needed to pair the parameters of the decay curves to the source brightness, i.e. saturation level. F212N saturates at F160W~12.5 and F470N saturates at F160W~10; magnitudes for stars brighter than these values should come from ground-based observations.
Several targets would be sufficient for this activity. Omega Cen is one candidate, but it may not be in the field of regard at the time the observations need to be executed. 47 Tuc and or the LMC calibration field are alternative options with the advantage of being near to, the continuous viewing zone.
Using a star field to characterize the persistence will not measure the persistence in individual pixels, but it will be possible to create spatial averages. Ground based data have provided us with maps of persistence across the field. If major discrepancies are found, one may consider repeating the sequence with different pointing to capture a larger fraction of the pixels.
There is no evidence at the moment of significant wavelength dependence of persistence; therefore this program has been crafted for one filter pair only.
TIMING CONSTRAINTS: Observations must occur in uninterruptable sequence: Dark On Source Dark On Source.