---
id: 1480
proposal_type: "calibration"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: ""
program_title: "CAL-NRC-011  LW Grism L-Flat Correction"
type: ""
---
# 1480 - CAL-NRC-011  LW Grism L-Flat Correction
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1480
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                      | Observing Template           | Science Target    |
| :------------------------- | :--------------------------- | :---------------- |
| Mod A GRISMR TS F 322W2    | NIRCam Grism Time Series     | (1) SMP-LMC-58    |
| Mod A DI F322W2            | NIRCam Engineering Imaging   | (1) SMP-LMC-58    |
| Mod A GRISMR TS F 444W    | NIRCam Grism Time Series     | (1) SMP-LMC-58    |
| Mod A DI F444W             | NIRCam Engineering Imaging   | (1) SMP-LMC-58    |
| Mod A GRISMC+R middle      | NIRCam Engineering Imaging   | (1) SMP-LMC-58    |
| Mod B GRISMC+R middle      | NIRCam Engineering Imaging   | (1) SMP-LMC-58    |

---

## ABSTRACT

This program will determine the L-flat correction for longwave (LW) grism observations by observing a rich stellar field (the LMC calibration field or a globular cluster), which will provide a large number of stars across the field for mapping spatial variations in the grism throughput. If the LMC is observed, the LW detector will contain about ~115 stars brighter than kmag=16. To detect these stars with S/N>5 per wavelength, observations should use the SHALLOW2 readout with 5 groups and 3 exposures/dithers. This data can also be used to characterize the spectral trace across the detector. Science data will be used to supplement this program.
This calibration program is provisional and may change in response to system developments and the final science program.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

March 2023 update, MBoyer
In flight data suggested the original observation was of limited use as designed, so this program has been redesigned to obtain additional spectral calibration on more points on the NIRCam detectors.
Nov 2019 MBoyer
These observations will be collected for both grisms in each module using observations designed with the Engineering Imaging Template. Direct (F405N) and grism exposures through the F322W2 and F444W filters will be collected, which together provide overlapping spectral coverage from 2.4-5 microns and cover the bandpasses for the other allowed filters. We also include observations through F360M to allow for additional analysis where spectral trace overlap is minimized. The F405N filter is used for direct images since it is closest to the non-dispersed wavelength at 3.95 microns. The field will be dithered with 3 positions to place stars over as much of the detectors as possible.