---
id: 1481
proposal_type: "calibration"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: ""
program_title: "CAL-NRC-012  Coronagraphic Distortion Monitor"
type: ""
---
# 1481 - CAL-NRC-012  Coronagraphic Distortion Monitor
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1481
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                                       | Observing Template       | Science Target            |
| :------------------------------------------ | :----------------------- | :------------------------ |
| Lyot Wedges Astrometric Calibration Epoch 1 | NIRCam Engineering Imaging | (1) LMC-ASTROMETRIC-FIELD |
| Lyot Wedges Astrometric Calibration Epoch 2 | NIRCam Engineering Imaging | (1) LMC-ASTROMETRIC-FIELD |

## ABSTRACT

This program monitors the NIRCam coronagraphic distortion/astrometry. Commissioning will determine the absolute distortion solution to within 3 mas. In cycle 1, we will revisit the LMC calibration field twice to monitor changes. This will involve observing stars behind the ND squares as well as in the vicinity of the coronagraphic masks to quantify the distortion behind the coronagraphic substrate. We will use the NIRCam Engineering Imaging template to observe with the FULL array, including dithers and a mosaic to overlap the shortwave (SW) detectors (an important cross-check). Since only module A is enabled for science observations, we will restrict detector overlap to the 2 SW detectors used for coronagraphy on module A.
This calibration program is provisional and may change in response to system developments and the final science program.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

June 29, 2022 MBoyer
- Added FGS1 in parallel for obs 1 and FGS2 in parallel for obs 2.
- adjusted pointnig so that modA is at the center of the HST calibration field
----------
Sep 2020 MBoyer
Added timing constraints that reflect the Oct 31, 2021 launch
----------
Nov 2019 MBoyer
With the CLEAR element in the pupil wheel, we will use the BRIGHT1 readout pattern with 2 groups and 2 integrations. With the MASKRND and MASKBAR elements, we will use the SHALLOW2 readout with 4 groups and 2 integrations. A 2-point small INTRAMODULEBOX primary dither will be used, along with a 1x2 mosaic with 80% column overlap to ensure that SCAs A2 and A4 overlap. All setups will use the F210M and F335M filters.
TIMING CONSTRAINTS: Two epochs, ~6 month separation. The first epoch should be scheduled 2-3 months after the associated commissioning program.
NOTE THAT A SPECIAL REQUIREMENT FOR THE TIMING OF EPOCH 1 NEEDS TO BE ADDED ONCE COMMISSIONING DATES ARE KNOWN
----------