---
id: 1482
proposal_type: "calibration"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: ""
program_title: "CAL-NRC-014  Coronagraphic PSF Characterization & TA Verification"
type: ""
---
# 1482 - CAL-NRC-014  Coronagraphic PSF Characterization & TA Verification
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1482
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                                                     | Observing Template                     | Science Target                       |
| :-------------------------------------------------------- | :------------------------------------- | :----------------------------------- |
| MASK210R, F210M, 9-PT CIRCLE, ROLL1                       | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging           | (6) K5-2MASS-16235565+2823024        |
| MASK210R, F210M, 9-PT CIRCLE, ROLL2                       | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging           | (6) K5-2MASS-16235565+2823024        |
| MASK335R, F335M, 9-PT CIRCLE, ROLL1                       | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging           | (6) K5-2MASS-16235565+2823024        |
| MASK335R, F335M, 9-PT CIRCLE, ROLL2                       | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging           | (6) K5-2MASS-16235565+2823024        |
| MASKSWB, F210M=>F182M, 5-PT BAR, ROLL1                    | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging           | (6) K5-2MASS-16235565+2823024        |
| MASKSWB, F210M, 5-PT BAR, ROLL2                           | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging           | (6) K5-2MASS-16235565+2823024        |
| MASK430R, F430M, 9-PT CIRCLE, ROLL1                       | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging           | (6) K5-2MASS-16235565+2823024        |
| MASK430R, F430M, 9-PT CIRCLE, ROLL2                       | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging           | (6) K5-2MASS-16235565+2823024        |
| MASKLWB, F335M=>F250M=>F480M, 5-PT BAR, ROLL1             | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging           | (6) K5-2MASS-16235565+2823024        |
| MASKLWB, F335M, 5-PT BAR, ROLL2                           | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging           | (6) K5-2MASS-16235565+2823024        |
| MASK210R, F210M, 9-PT CIRCLE, ROLL3                       | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging           | (6) K5-2MASS-16235565+2823024        |
| MASK335R, F335M, 9-PT CIRCLE, ROLL3                       | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging           | (6) K5-2MASS-16235565+2823024        |
| MASKSWB, F210M=>F182M, 5-PT BAR, ROLL3                    | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging           | (6) K5-2MASS-16235565+2823024        |
| MASK430R, F430M, 9-PT CIRCLE, ROLL3                       | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging           | (6) K5-2MASS-16235565+2823024        |
| MASKLWB, F335M=>F250M=>F480M, 5-PT BAR, ROLL3             | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging           | (6) K5-2MASS-16235565+2823024        |
| MASK210R, F210M, 9-PT CIRCLE, ROLL3                       | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging           | (6) K5-2MASS-16235565+2823024        |
| MASKSWB NARROW, F210M, 5-PT BAR, ROLL1                    | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging           | (6) K5-2MASS-16235565+2823024        |
| MASKLWB, F335M=>F410M, 5-PT BAR                          | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging           | (6) K5-2MASS-16235565+2823024        |
| MASKLWB NARROW, F335M, 5-PT BAR, ROLL1                    | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging           | (6) K5-2MASS-16235565+2823024        |
| MASKSWB NARRO W, F210M, 5-PT BAR, ROLL2                   | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging           | (6) K5-2MASS-16235565+2823024        |
| MASKLWB NARRO W, F335M, 5-PT BAR, ROLL2                   | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging           | (6) K5-2MASS-16235565+2823024        |

## ABSTRACT

This program characterizes the NIRCam coronagraphic PSF with different observing configurations (all masks and 1 or 2 filters) using a relatively bright photometric standard star and the small-grid dither patterns. Data from this program can also be used to verify target acquisition (TA) and flux calibration (CAL-NIRCam-013). PSF Characterization: PSF characterization will use a JWST standard star and all mask/filter combinations that span the coronagraphic imaging wavelength range. These observations will check our ability to bootstrap accurate (to ~1-2%) absolute photometry with coronagraphs (including the coronagraphic wedge, substrate, Lyot stop) with respect to the standard imaging using the whole optical system (phased telescope + instrument). We will characterize the behavior of the PSF with wavelength and position along the bars. The same star will be observed in imaging mode through the same filters to make a direct comparison. We will also observe the same star with the coronagraph wedge in place, but placing the star a few arcsec outside the mask. Since we use a photometric standard (likely SNAP-2, a G2V star with K=14.2 mag), these data can supplement the absolute flux calibration. Target Acquisition: The PSF observations can also be used to as an additional check of the TA offsets, which will be verified during Commissioning (COM-NRC-30). This check requires no additional dedicated observations. After the TA exposure and subsequent slew to the occulter position, the fine steering mirror is used to perform a 5- or 3-point dither sequence in steps of ~10 mas. This will allow a verification of and, if necessary, an update to the ideal position of the bright star behind each occulter. This program will test the faint target acquisition (with SNAP-2); bright targets observed in the absolute flux calibration program (CAL-NIRCam-013) will test TA using the neutral density squares.

This calibration program is provisional and may change in response to system developments and the final science program.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

March 3 2023 Girard

Based on needs and knowledge from commissioning, ERS and GTO programs
Replace Part 1, Part 2, Part 3 by New Part 1 and New Part 2 (15.7h total against 15.8h allocated)

New Part 1: TA repeatability
BEFORE MAY 15
(2 times each TA with a 5 to 8 deg roll for each mask, 1 change of filter for MASKSWB roll1, 2 changes of filter for MASKLWB roll1)
~9.7h
obs 34 to 43
MASK210R, F210M, 9-PT CIRCLE, ROLL1
MASK210R, F210M, 9-PT CIRCLE, ROLL2
MASK335R, F335M, 9-PT CIRCLE, ROLL1
MASK335R, F335M, 9-PT CIRCLE, ROLL2
MASKSWB, F210M=>F182M, 5-PT BAR, ROLL1
MASKSWB, F210M, 5-PT BAR, ROLL2
MASK430R, F430M, 9-PT CIRCLE, ROLL1
MASK430R, F430M, 9-PT CIRCLE, ROLL2
MASKLWB, F335M=>F250M=>F480M, 5-PT BAR, ROLL1
MASKLWB, F335M, 5-PT BAR, ROLL2

New Part 2: TA repeatability & error mitigation
BEFORE MAY 31
(1 time each TA for each mask, 1 change of filter for MASKSWB roll1, 2 changes of filter for MASKLWB roll1)
~6.0h
obs 44 to 48
MASK210R, F210M, 9-PT CIRCLE, ROLL3
MASK335R, F335M, 9-PT CIRCLE, ROLL3
MASKSWB, F210M=>F182M, 5-PT BAR, ROLL3
MASK430R, F430M, 9-PT CIRCLE, ROLL3
MASKLWB, F335M=>F250M=>F480M, 5-PT BAR, ROLL3

Nov 2019 MBoyer

The observations will use the coronagraphic imaging template, with 7 combinations:
• MASK210R, F210M, 5-pt DIAMOND dither
• MASKSWB, F210M_F182M, 3-pt BAR dither
• MASKSWB, F182M F210M, 3-pt BAR dither
• MASK335R, F335M, 5-pt DIAMOND dither
• MASKLWB, F335M_F480M, 3-pt BAR dither
• MASKLWB, F480M F335M, 3-pt BAR dither
• MASK430R, F430M, 5-pt DIAMOND dither

The program is designed in 3 parts.
Part 1: SNAP-2 behind the mask, using all 7 configurations.
Part 2: SNAP-2 outside of the mask, using 5 configurations (only one direction is needed for each bar),
Part 3: Direct imaging of SNAP-2 on A2, A4, and A5.
In all parts, exposure specifications need to be verified. Part 3 may require subarrays.

TIMING CONSTRAINTS: Group all of the photometric calibration observations to occur within a few days or so of each other.

Jan 2019 Slim version:
1) Cutting part 4, which will be covered in the absolute flux program.
2) Need to verify whether the full array is OK for part 3
3) Need to verify exposure parameters everywhere -- timing is provisional, but won't change much

Using target SNAP-2 because this is the only solar analog that won't saturate in FULL frame with RAPID, 3 groups (it saturates in 4 groups). When it's behind the mask, we'll use MEDIUM8 with 5 groups to ensure we get enough flux.
*****NOTE!! Need to verify exposure time for when star is behind mask*****

Parts 1, 2, and 3 are groups to occur with 6 days of each other.

Part 1: Put the star behind the mask, and test all mask configurations for TA verification w/ a faint target (Bright target TA is verified in part 4). Integrate long (see above note about SNAP-2) to get enough flux for photometric calibration. Do astrometric confirmation images only in the first observation in the sequence.

Part 2: Apply a x=3", y=3" offset in Special requirements and observe the star with all mask configurations. However, we only need to do the bar in one direction in this case, since this part doesn't need to test TA. Only do astrometric confirmation imates in first observation in sequence.
*****NOTE!! Need to verify that TA still happens on the star position, but then the mask is put at the offset position. *****

Part 3: Put the star near same position as masks, but without the coronagraphy optics. Put it in A2 and A4 (2 observations)
*****NOTE!! Need to verify position of stars to place near location of coronagraph mask*****

Part 4: Verify TA using a bright star that requires ND square. Use all configurations. Needs much brighter target than SNAP-2.