---
id: 1486
proposal_type: "calibration"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: ""
program_title: "CAL-NRS-003  Spectroscopic Subarray Flats"
type: ""
---
# 1486 - CAL-NRS-003  Spectroscopic Subarray Flats
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1486
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                                                               | Observing Template      | Science Target |
| :------------------------------------------------------------------ | :---------------------- | :------------- |
| NRS-003 Cy 1: NIRSpec Internal spec flats subarrays, PRISM         | NIRSpec Internal Lamp   | NONE           |
| NRS-003 Cy 1: NIRSpec Internal spec flats subarrays, G140H         | NIRSpec Internal Lamp   | NONE           |
| NRS-003 Cy 1: NIRSpec Internal spec flats subarrays, G235H, G395H | NIRSpec Internal Lamp   | NONE           |
| NRS-003 Cy 1: NIRSpec Internal spec flats subarrays, G140M         | NIRSpec Internal Lamp   | NONE           |
| NRS-003 Cy 1: NIRSpec Internal spec flats subarrays, G235M,G395M | NIRSpec Internal Lamp   | NONE           |
| Saturation G235H / G395H                                            | NIRSpec Internal Lamp   | NONE           |
| Saturation G235M / G395M                                            | NIRSpec Internal Lamp   | NONE           |

## ABSTRACT

This program will acquire the spectroscopic (lamp) flats for the FS mode using the ALLSLITS subarray. Observations will be acquired for all of the NIRSpec disperser/lamp combinations. These observations are essential for minimizing flat field calibration noise for FS and/or BOTS observations that need improved signal-to-noise. The commissioning program will acquire a minimum set of flats, these observations for Cycle 1 calibration will greatly decrease the noise from flat fielding process for science observation processing. The S-flat is one part of the 3 component NIRSpec flat field: the F-flat traces the field-dependent throughput of the OTE and instrument FORE optics, the S-flat traces the light path from the micro-shutter array up to but not including the FPA and the D-flat consists of the pixel-to-pixel variations of the detector.

This calibration program is provisional and may change in response to system developments and final science program.

After consideration we have added two additional observations (6 and 7) to better measure the saturation in subarray modes.
These will allow us to follow exposures to saturation for all pixels that will ever see light from the fixed slits, allowing proper error flagging in these cases.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

ALLSLITS exposures taken with all 9 disperser/ lamp configurations (filter set to OPAQUE).
subarray gain is always 2.
Uses internal lamp flat template therefore parallel slew only special requirement is required.
The flat field response is purely a property of the detector pixel, therefore data for other subarrays can be cutout of the ALLSLITS subarray.
Sub2048 and Sub512 are used with prism and medium gratings because S1600A1 will saturate too quickly.

Integrations are selected to avoid saturation, should be adjusted if there is saturation during commissioning.

cycle through all exposures with a particular grating before moving on to minimize GWA moves.