---
id: 1493
proposal_type: "calibration"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: ""
program_title: "CAL-NRS-017  F-Flat Characterization"
type: ""
---
# 1493 - CAL-NRS-017  F-Flat Characterization
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1493
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                                                     | Observing Template                                            | Science Target               |
| :-------------------------------------------------------- | :------------------------------------------------------------ | :--------------------------- |
| 2                                                         | 3x1 FULLBOX-4TIGH NIRCam Imaging T NIRCAM                     | (2) NGC2506G31               |
| 3                                                         | p1, p2, p3, p4, p5, p6, p7, p8, p9, p0 NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (3) NGC2506CAT20228417E |

## ABSTRACT

This program obtains observations needed to further calibrate the F-flat of the instrument flat field/throughput correction. The F-flat is one part of the 3 component NIRSpec flat field: the F-flat traces the field-dependent throughput of the OTE and instrument FORE optics, the S-flat traces the light path from the micro-shutter array up to but not including the FPA and the D-flat consists of the pixel-to-pixel variations of the detector, usually called the P-flat. Additional observations will be obtained at a wider range of positions than acquired during Commissioning to more accurately calibrate the field dependence, and remove uncertainties from the S-flat due to imperfect knowledge of the instrument's internal flat lamp profiles.
This calibration program is provisional and may change in response to system developments and final science program.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This program will observe the solar analogue NGC 2506-G31 = GAIA DR3 3038045185547143936. This star will also be observed by the calibration progam PID 1538, Absolute Flux Calibration (G Dwarfs) with a wide variety of NIRCAM filters as well as the NIRSpec PRISM using both the FS/S1600A1 and IFU.

Here, we will observe NGC 2506-G31 at 10 positions spanning different corners of various MSA quadrants with the PRISM/CLEAR configuration. At each of these 10 points, a 3-shutter slitlet will be opened, and three exposures obtained while nodding the source in each of the open shutters. Exposures are comprised of two integrations with 10 groups each of NRSIRS2RAPID readout. These observations will then be used to update the MOS F-flat reference file. This set of measurements is the minimum sampling required to characterize any spatial dependence over the field. If we find evidence that variations exist at smaller scales, we will have to obtain additional points if our ability to achieve the required flux calibration accuracy for MOS mode is compromised.

In addition to the primary target, which will be placed in the center of preselected shutters, we will also observe other cluster stars that are available. We will give the highest priority to other solar analogues that have been identified in this field and other cluster main-sequence stars, especially those that fall within the footprint of NIRCAM imaging from this proposal or PID 1538. This will produce PRISM spectra of a number of other targets with well constrained SEDs that can be used to provide additional checks of the MOS throughput and of the cross-calibration with NIRCAM. Other solar analogues identified by Schalwin (2022) in this cluster are given weight = 400 or 401, with the extra point of weight given to stars which have at least some NIRCAM imaging observations. Other stars with Gaia colors, magnitudes, proper motion, and parallax consistent with solar analogues but which were not included in Schalwin's list are assigned weight of 100 or 101. Other stars close to the cluster main-sequence are assigned weight = 20 or 21. Stars not on the main-sequence are given weights of 10 or 11, while stars that would have been higher priority but for which the NIRCAM imaging suggests the posibility of some contamination are given a weight of 7.

To better verify each of the 10 pointings, we have also added a confirmation image for each configuration, along with a number of targets of suitable brightness for this purpose. A weight of 5 is assigned to these fainter stars.

We also include NIRCAM preimaging observations using F115W and F444W. These are somewhat deeper than the PID 1538 NIRCAM observations and will use a somewhat different footprint (the NIRCAM observations are biased toward the cluster center, while we need a symetric set of reference stars around the target, which is in the perhiphery of the cluster, to support offsets in all directions). Existing photometry suggests that there should be plenty of refrence stars suitable for the F110W/NRSRAPID bin.

For a K2V star that gives S/N=20 for MSATA with F110W/NRSRAPID, our selected NIRCAM setup of 4 grps x 2 integrations with the BRIGHT2 readout gives S/N=42 for F115W and S/N=31 for F444W at a single dither position. We'll use a 3x1 mosaic with the FULLBOX 4TIGHT to cover the detector gaps and provide pre-imaging coverage for 3 of the 4 quads even at the corner positions of our NIRSPEC mosaic. This should provide an adequate number of reference stars. The brighter calibration targets being observed have accurate Gaia coordinates and proper motions. Given that accurate placement of our target in the middle of the selected shutter at each pointing is critical for our calibration goals, we require 10 reference stars with astrometry good to 10 mas or better be used at each pointing. The F444W was chosen for the long wavelength channel to provide additional calibration checks on the red end of the NIRSpec PRISM througput, especially for stars that do not fall in the PID 1538 NIRCAM footprint where multi-band photometry will be available.

**Timing Constraints**
We've added a BEFORE 30-JUN-2023 constraint as it is a priority to collect this calibration data before the end of cycle 1.