---
id: 1494
proposal_type: "calibration"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: ""
program_title: "CAL-NRS-018  MSA Anneal"
type: ""
---
# 1494 - CAL-NRS-018  MSA Anneal
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1494
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                               | Observing Template       | Science Target |
| :---------------------------------- | :----------------------- | :------------- |
| NIRSpec-038: MSA Heat-up and hold | NIRSpec MSA Anneal       | NONE           |

## ABSTRACT

The NIRSpec MSA Anneal process uses internal heaters to warm the MSA to ~+270K in an effort to un-stick failed open and closed MSA shutters that have evolved over the course of routine NIRSpec operations. The MSA is then cooled back to operating temperatures and a set of verification exposures is run to investigate the success of un-sticking the shutters. A single MSA Anneal process takes ~5.5hrs of NIRSpec-as-prime time, and the thermal environment caused by the heaters results in down time for all instruments during this time frame. After this 5.5 hr time period, NIRSpec will have cooled back down to ~55K allowing the other instruments to operate, but it will take another TBC_42-48hrs before NIRSpec is back to operational temperature and available for science and close out of the Anneal verification exposures. This is anticipated to be done ~2x in Cycle 1, but the frequency may depend on the evolving population of failed shutters in the MSA. This is a NIRSpec instrument engineering program.

This calibration program is provisional and may change in response to system developments and final science program.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The dedicated APT template "Heat-up and Hold" creates three separate visits.

The first of which will power off the MSA quadrants (among other function tasks) before activating the quadrant heaters until they reach a temperature of 260 K. The onboard OSS script maintains this temperature for a selectable duration (15 minutes), before the heaters are turned off, and the MSA is allowed to cool back down. Based on experience in the cryo testing campaigns, the cool-down will take 36-48 hours.

The second visit (which has a selectable start time after the end of visit 1) could obtain a number of diagnostic exposures during the cooldown period. This monitoring ends when the MSA temperature falls back below 'verification temperature', upon which the script then waits (without further exposures) until the 'nominal temperature' is achieved. However, so as not to block OSS activities for a long time while these monitoring exposures are executed (they are not now seen as critical), we actually ask for visit 2 to be started as late as possible- i.e. when the temperature has already returned to very close to nominal. In this case, no monitoring exposures will be taken. Note that visit 2 is still required, as it powers the quadrants back on (among other functional tasks).

The third and last visit (which can be scheduled immediately after visit 2) will then obtain a standard set of diagnostic exposures for the MSA performance characterisation in order to assess the impact of the heat-up.

TIMING CONSTRAINTS
this program is ON HOLD until it is determined an anneal of the MSA shutters is necessary