---
id: 1496
proposal_type: "calibration"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: ""
program_title: "CAL-NRS-020  Wheel Characterization"
type: ""
---
# 1496 - CAL-NRS-020  Wheel Characterization
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1496
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :---- | :------------------------------- | :------------- |
|       | NIRSpec Filter/Grating Wheel Test | NONE           |
|       | NIRSpec Filter/Grating Wheel Test | NONE           |
|       | NIRSpec Filter/Grating Wheel Test | NONE           |
|       | NIRSpec Filter/Grating Wheel Test | NONE           |
|       | NIRSpec Filter/Grating Wheel Test | NONE           |

## ABSTRACT

This activity is needed to verify the basic functionality of the FWA and GWA. It will be done once during Cycle 1, unless normal telemetry monitoring indicates a possible problem that requires the more detailed information provided by this characterization activity. The procedure collects NIRSpec-focused telemetry data in the HC buffer at each commanded position and sends them to the ground for inspection after the procedure is completed. The FSW sends a series of mechanism move commands to step the FWA/GWA one position at a time through all 8 wheel positions in both the forward and reverse directions. At each position, the HC buffer is armed before a move and then dumped after the move. The procedure acquires prime internal calibrations and takes approximately 2 hours to execute.

This calibration program is provisional and may change in response to system developments and final science program.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This activity is needed to verify the basic functionality of the FWA and GWA. It will be done once during Cycle 1, unless normal telemetry monitoring indicates a possible problem that requires the more detailed information provided by this characterization activity (there is an identical CAR for each wheel that will be executed in Commissioning if necessary). The procedure collects NIRSpec-focused telemetry data in the HC buffer at each commanded position and sends them to the ground for inspection after the procedure is completed. The FSW sends a series of mechanism move commands to step the FWA/GWA one position at a time through all 8 wheel positions in both the forward and reverse directions. At each position, the HC buffer is armed before a move and then dumped after the move.