---
id: 1501
proposal_type: "calibration"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: ""
program_title: "CAL-NIS-005  Astrometric Cal"
type: ""
---
# 1501 - CAL-NIS-005  Astrometric Cal
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1501
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label          | Observing Template          | Science Target                     |
| :------------- | :-------------------------- | :--------------------------------- |
| Filter Sequence | NIRISS External Calibration | (1) LMC-NIRISS-FGS-ALIGNMENT |
| Filter Sequence | NIRISS External Calibration | (1) LMC-NIRISS-FGS-ALIGNMENT |

## ABSTRACT

The initial astrometric calibration for NIRISS will be done in commissioning. Subsequent astrometric observations may be required to revise and improve the initial astrometric calibration. This program carries out an astrometric calibration assuming that the initial solution is known to the required accuracy (5 milli-arc-seconds RMS precision) and that we need to carry out additional observations to refine the existing solution. The three observations in the commissioning CAR are redone here, linked together. The first such set of three observations should be done within 3 months after the end of commissioning, and the second set of three observations should be done 4 or more months after the first set.

This calibration program is provisional and may change in response to system developments and the final science program.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The program carries out an astrometric calibration of NIRISS using the same method as what is to be done during commissioning. In addition a comparion of the full frame image of the astrometric field to an observation in the SUBAMPCAL sub-array may be taken for photometric calibration of the amplifier channels 2 to 4 with respect to channel 1 if this seems to be needed after commissioning. That particular observation is not presently part of the program.

There are two duplicate sets of observations with a minimum gap of about 150 days between the first set and the second set to produce two measurements well separated in cycle 1. The first set is scheduled sometime in the first three months of cycle 1 assuming a start date of 20 June 2022.

The program here is based on CAR 1087, the initial NIRISS astrometric calibration.

If we see a change in the astrometry in the first of these two observations compared to what was found in commissioning, it may be necessary to add additional observations to monitor the astrometry. This is not expected, but this is why the allocated time is approximately twice than the time required for these two observations.