---
id: 1506
proposal_type: "calibration"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: ""
program_title: "CAL-NIS-013  NRM Fractional Throughput Cal (Full Frame)"
type: ""
---
# 1506 - CAL-NIS-013  NRM Fractional Throughput Cal (Full Frame)
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1506
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template       | Science Target               |
| :---- | :----------------------- | :--------------------------- |
| 1     | NIRISS External Calibration | (1) 2MASS-J17430448+6655015 |

## ABSTRACT

Observations will be made of a standard star in regular full frame imaging and then with the NRM in the beam to calibrate the fractional throughput of the mask for photometric calibration purposes. A similar program is planned for the SUB80 sub-array, but that uses brighter targets than can be observed in full frame imaging.

This calibration program is provisional and may change in response to system developments and the final science program.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This program is for measurement of the fractional throughput of the NIRISS NRM in full frame imaging. This quanitiy is required for the photometric calibration of any full frame NRM science observations from regular imaging photometric observations. The measurement only needs to be made in one filter for this case, since there are no aperture losses with the star positioned at the center of the detector. The F480M filter is selected as it produces the best PSF sampling available for NIRISS imaging.

The target is a photometric standard star that is continuously visible. This star is used for NIRISS regular imaging calibration in the photometric calibration program.