---
id: 1509
proposal_type: "calibration"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: ""
program_title: "CAL-NIS-017  NRM Pixel Linearity Cal"
type: ""
---
# 1509 - CAL-NIS-017  NRM Pixel Linearity Cal
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1509
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :---- | :---------------------------------- | :---------------- |
| 1     | NIRISS Aperture Masking Interferometry | (1) HD-105521     |
| 2     | NIRISS Aperture Masking Interferometry | (2) HD-93237      |
| 3     | NIRISS Aperture Masking Interferometry | (3) HR-7258       |

## ABSTRACT

NIRISS/AMI observations of three bright stars will be taken to characterize the linearity response of the peak pixels in the PSF to better precision than can be obtained in ground-based linearity measurements. The observations will be taken with dithering between the 4 primary positions, so this will also provide some persistence data for analysis. This calibration program is provisional and may change in response to system developments and the final science program.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

One of the limiting factors in the precision of NIRISS/AMI observations of bright objects is expected to be the accuracy of the linearity correction values from the ground-based measurements. These values are limited by uncertainties in the stability of the lamp brightness. Stars provide a much better stability than the lamps used in the ground-based measurements. In this program observations of three single stars of different brightnesses will be made in the NIRISS/AMI mode to allow a direct measurement of the linearity coefficients for the pixels in the peak of the PSF at better accuracy than was achieved in the ground measurements. All three measurements are required for the analysis, but the observations may be taken at any time during cycle 1 and do not need to be coordinated. The observations do not require a phase calibration observation linked to them.