---
id: 1512
proposal_type: "calibration"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: ""
program_title: "CAL-NIS-021  SOSS Trace and Wavelength Cal"
type: ""
---
# 1512 - CAL-NIS-021  SOSS Trace and Wavelength Cal
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1512
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :---- | :----------------- | :------------- |
| | NIRISS External Calibration | (3) BD+60-1753 |
| | NIRISS External Calibration | (3) BD+60-1753 |
| | NIRISS External Calibration | (3) BD+60-1753 |
| | NIRISS External Calibration | (3) BD+60-1753 |
| | NIRISS External Calibration | (3) BD+60-1753 |
| | NIRISS External Calibration | (3) BD+60-1753 |
| | NIRISS External Calibration | (3) BD+60-1753 |
| | NIRISS External Calibration | (3) BD+60-1753 |
| | NIRISS External Calibration | (3) BD+60-1753 |
| | NIRISS External Calibration | (3) BD+60-1753 |

---

## ABSTRACT

Observations of a bright star of known spectral type in the continuous viewing zone will be used to determine the GR700XD dispersion solution and the "standard" trace position for the NIRISS SOSS mode.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This calibration program is provisional and may change in response to system developments and the final science program.
Observations of either an A0V star or an M5V star will be used to determine the NIRISS GR700XD wavelength solution for first and second order. In addition the "standard" trace positions will be measured from these observations. Exposures will be made in the normal SOSS mode and also with the F277W filiter. The latter observations provide the first-order trace at long wavelengths without contamination from second-order, and this will aid in the separation of the orders in the data reduction.
Ideally only one of the two targets needs to be observed at any given time. Both targets are in the continuous viewing zone. It is assumed that this calibration needs to be repeated four times in cycle 1. The current plan is to observe the M-type star G240-52 four times and the A-type star will not be observed. The A-type star is present as a contingency in case we find problems with using an M-type star for this purpose during commissioning.