---
id: 1516
proposal_type: "calibration"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: ""
program_title: "CAL-NIS-026  AMI Charge Transfer Characterization"
type: ""
---
# 1516 - CAL-NIS-026  AMI Charge Transfer Characterization
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1516
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template                 | Science Target          |
| :---- | :--------------------------------- | :---------------------- |
|       | NIRISS Aperture Masking Interferometry | (1) -DEL-UMI            |
|       | NIRISS Aperture Masking Interferometry | (2) HD-163466           |
|       | NIRISS Aperture Masking Interferometry | (3) HD-40646            |
|       | NIRISS Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy | (4) HD-59533            |
|       | NIRISS Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy | (4) HD-59533            |
|       | NIRISS Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy | (4) HD-59533            |
|       | NIRISS Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy | (4) HD-59533            |

## ABSTRACT

Observations of stars in NIRISS AMI mode with differing peak ramp counts and the same total exposure time are to be taken to assess the effects of charge migration on the interference pattern. In this preliminary test, the F430M and F277W filters are used, and in the wide filter a smaller total number of photons is collected per ramp set-up. In addition an analogous SOSS mode observation of one of the stars is made to assess the effects of charge migration on the SOSS spectra.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

In order to assess the effects of charge migration on NIRISS AMI observations, a series of exposures of different ramplength and hence different peak signal but with about the same total exposure time are taken for three stars. Analysis of the closure phases and other interferometric quantities in the different exposures will demonstate whether there is a change with peak signal level due to the charge migration.

A similar observation is done in the NIRISS SOSS mode with a star observed to roughly the same S/N with ramps of lengths between 1 and 4 frames where the longest ramp is expected to reach pixel full well at some wavelengths. Comparison of the output spectra for these cases will show how the charge migration affects the SOSS reductions. The main concern is a blurring of spectral lines due to charge migration in the wavelength direction. Using one of the same stars as the AMI charge migration observation allows the program to save some time.