---
id: 1518
proposal_type: "calibration"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: ""
program_title: "CAL-MIRI-002  Internal Flat Monitor"
type: ""
---
# 1518 - CAL-MIRI-002  Internal Flat Monitor
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1518
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label             | Observing Template  | Science Target    |
| :---------------- | :------------------ | :---------------- |
| Phase1 Month 1    | MIRI External Flat  | (1) NAME-LMC      |
| Phase1 Month 2    | MIRI External Flat  | (1) NAME-LMC      |
| Phase1 Month 3    | MIRI External Flat  | (1) NAME-LMC      |
| Phase1 Month 4    | MIRI External Flat  | (1) NAME-LMC      |
| Phase1 Month 5    | MIRI External Flat  | (1) NAME-LMC      |
| Phase1 Month 6    | MIRI External Flat  | (1) NAME-LMC      |
| Phase1 Month 7    | MIRI External Flat  | (1) NAME-LMC      |
| Phase1 Month 8    | MIRI External Flat  | (1) NAME-LMC      |
| Phase1 Month 9    | MIRI External Flat  | (1) NAME-LMC      |
| Phase1 Month 10   | MIRI External Flat  | (1) NAME-LMC      |
| Phase1 Month 11   | MIRI External Flat  | (1) NAME-LMC      |
| Phase1 Month 12   | MIRI External Flat  | (1) NAME-LMC      |
| Phase3 Month 1    | MIRI External Flat  | NAME-LMC          |
| Phase3 Month 2    | MIRI External Flat  | (1) NAME-LMC      |
| Phase3 Month 3    | MIRI External Flat  | (1) NAME-LMC      |
| Phase3 Month 4    | MIRI External Flat  | (1) NAME-LMC      |
| Phase3 Month 5    | MIRI External Flat  | (1) NAME-LMC      |
| Phase3 Month 6    | MIRI External Flat  | (1) NAME-LMC      |
| Phase3 Month 7    | MIRI External Flat  | (1) NAME-LMC      |
| Phase3 Month 8    | MIRI External Flat  | (1) NAME-LMC      |
| Phase3 Month 9    | MIRI External Flat  | (1) NAME-LMC      |
| Phase3 Month 10   | MIRI External Flat  | (1) NAME-LMC      |
| Phase3 Month 11   | MIRI External Flat  | (1) NAME-LMC      |
| Phase3 Month 12   | MIRI External Flat  | (1) NAME-LMC      |
| Low flux          | MIRI External Flat  | NONE              |
| Medium flux       | MIRI External Flat  | NONE              |
| High flux         | MIRI External Flat  | NONE              |
| Low flux          | MIRI External Flat  | NONE              |
| Medium flux       | MIRI External Flat  | NONE              |
| High flux         | MIRI External Flat  | NONE              |
| Low flux SUB256   | MIRI External Flat  | NONE              |
| Medium flux SUB256 | MIRI External Flat  | NONE              |
| High flux SUB256  | MIRI External Flat  | NONE              |

---

## ABSTRACT

**CAL-MIRI-002**
During the course of the JWST mission, small changes can be expected in the detector operating parameters (especially bias voltage and temperature). Additionally, space weathering from the cumulative impacts of cosmic rays will slowly degrade detector properties. As a result, we can fully expect that detector responsivities will change with time, making it imperative that we monitor the MIRI detectors on a regular basis and have the data available to develop new flatfields when they are required. Periodic (monthly) measurements of the on-board calibration sources plus background sky are intended to provide the following information: (1) Tracking of trends and changes in the relative radiometric response of the imager and Medium Resolution Spectrometer (MRS) for the optical train between the calibration source and the detector. (2) When combined with measurements of photometric standard stars, the ability to derive the absolute radiometric response at all times and all points in the field of the imager and MRS. (3) The pixel flat field (gain or responsivity matrix). (4) High signal-to-noise measurements of the MRS spectral fringes.
This APT file also includes observations that use the calibration lamp from CAL-MIRI-003 to determine a correction for the reset switch charge decay (RSCD).
This calibration program is provisional and may change in response to system developments and the final science program.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

**CAL-MIRI-002 - Internal flat monitor**
During the course of the JWST mission, small changes can be expected in the detector operating parameters (especially bias voltage and temperature). Additionally, space weathering from the cumulative impacts of cosmic rays will slowly degrade detector properties. As a result, we can fully expect that detector responsivities will change with time, making it imperative that we monitor the MIRI detectors on a regular basis and have the data available to develop new flatfields when they are required.
Periodic (monthly) measurements of the on-board calibration sources plus background sky are intended to provide the following information:
1) Tracking of trends and changes in the relative radiometric response of the imager and Medium Resolution Spectrometer (MRS) for the optical train between the calibration source and the detector.
2) When combined with measurements of photometric standard stars, the ability to derive the absolute radiometric response at all times and all points in the field of the imager and MRS.
3) The pixel flat field (gain or responsivity matrix).
4) High signal-to-noise measurements of the MRS spectral fringes.
Observations are groups in two linked sequences, one for Phase 1 flatfields, which observe with the F560W, F770W, and F1000W filters simultaneously with the MRS detectors, and one for Phase 3 flatfields, which use the F1130W, F1280W, and F1550W filters.
Phase 1 - Obs 1-12
Phase 3 - Obs 13-24
CAL-MIRI-003 - Lamp-on observations for the RSCD correction
RSCD - Imager with lamp - Obs 25-27
RSCD - MRS with lamp - Obs 28-30
RSCD - SUB256 with lamp - Obs 31-33
**TIMING CONSTRAINTS**
The timing constraints in the special requirements for each observation assume:
1) a launch date of 25 Dec 2022
2) the beginning of Cycle 1 on 1 July 2022.
The Phase 1 and Phase 3 observations (1-24) should be executed each month in Cycle 1, for a total of 12 executions, each with a pair of observations. A monthly cadence is critical for the proper calibration of MIRI. The timing constraints are designed to meet the monthly requirement, but should not be considered to be absolute.
Phase 1 and Phase 3 should be run separately and not consecutively to avoid violating thermal balance limitations.
The first observation of the three RSCD lamp sequences (Obs 25, 28, and 31) should also be scheduled in the first two months of Cycle 1. The following observations in the RSCD lamp sequences should be performed with delays between 3 h and 10 d after the previous observation, with exclusive use of the instrument.
Again, care must be taken with the RSCD lamp-on observations to stay within thermal balance limitations.
Missed or failed observations should be made up as quickly as possible, with following observations staying on the original cadence.
**CONTINGENCIES** (for observations not included in this version of the APT file)
Phase 2 is a contingency-only observation described in the relevant calibration report for CAL-MIRI-002; at the moment it is not included in program 1518. It consists of MRS bands and imager observations in the longest wavelength filters (F1800W, F2100W and F2550W) with and without the calibration source switched on. This activity will only be requested in the event that normal science operations fail to provide sufficient empty-field on-sky (which will include the thermal emission from the telescope) measurements for the three long-wavelength filters.