---
id: 1521
proposal_type: "calibration"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: ""
program_title: "CAL-MIRI-012  Imaging External Flat Field"
type: ""
---
# 1521 - CAL-MIRI-012  Imaging External Flat Field
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1521
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                         | Observing Template | Science Target                       |
| :---------------------------- | :----------------- | :----------------------------------- |
| Dense field measurements      | MIRI Imaging       | (1) LMC-MIRI-A-IMG                   |
| Non-linearity at long wavelengths. | MIRI Imaging       | (2) MIRI-SLEW-TO-HOT-TARGET-NORTH |

---

## ABSTRACT

This activity will obtain external flat fields at low spatial frequencies (L-flats) for the MIRI imager. It builds on the commissioning activity CAR-MIRI-053. We will use the “thousand-points-of-light” technique to measure the L-flats by observing the LMC astrometric field with a dither pattern designed to sample the same stars in multiple positions on the detector. The data obtained in this activity will also be used to monitor geometric distortion and boresight offset corrections (CAL-MIRI-016). These data will also help monitor the shape of the core of the PSF across the detector (CAL-MIRI-014). This activity will be executed once in Cycle 1 in month 3, so that it occurs relatively early in Cycle 1 but still provides a reasonable temporal baseline from the related activity during commissioning.

This calibration program is provisional and may change in response to system developments and the final science program.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Requirement: No parallel observations are to be executed for this proposal. Visits are requested to be executed within 25 days.

**TIMING CONSTRAINTS**
This program should be executed once during Month 3 of Cycle 1.

The timing constraints are set based on a launch date of 25 Dec 2021 and the start of Cycle 1 six months later.

While Month 3 is ideal, this schedule has some flexibility. The last week of Month 2 would also work, as would all of Month 4.

Missed or failed observations should be made up as close to Month 3 of Cycle 1 as reasonable.