---
id: 1522
proposal_type: "calibration"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: ""
program_title: "CAL-MIRI-018  Imaging Filter Characterization"
type: ""
---
# 1522 - CAL-MIRI-018  Imaging Filter Characterization
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1522
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                      | Observing Template                     | Science Target             |
| :------------------------- | :------------------------------------- | :------------------------- |
| MRS - WOPR of failed 01    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (1) 1998-BC1, (4) 1999-XZ93 |
| Imager - WOPR of failed 02 | MIRI Imaging                           | (1) 1998-BC1, (4) 1999-XZ93 |
| MRS - WOPR of failed 03    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (1) 1998-BC1, (4) 1999-XZ93 |

---

## ABSTRACT

This activity will test the ground-based filter transmission functions by observing a red object through all nine MIRI imaging filters. The target will be a main-belt asteroid which will also be observed with the MRS to provide a spectrum covering the full 5-28 um wavelength range. Comparing synthetic photometry of the asteroid using the MRS spectrum of the asteroid with the actual photometry with the imager will test the filter functions and check for any possible filter leaks of red or blue light. Similar analysis on standard stars, comparing actual photometry and synthetic photometry with both model spectra and MRS spectra, will provide further tests. This activity will be performed jointly with CAL-NIR-024; combining the

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This CAL activity observes a moving target in the Solar System in both the MRS and the imager.

The current target chosen, 5283381 (2008 ST291), is a placeholder, and a new target will need to be selected once we are closer to launch. Consequently, integration times are still only approximate at this stage.

The previous placeholder target, 300128 Panditjasraj, remains in the target list but is currently unused.

Special requirements: Observations 1, 2, and 3 are to be executed as a non-interruptible sequence.