---
id: 1528
proposal_type: "calibration"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: ""
program_title: "CAL-MIRI-032  LRS External Flat Field"
type: ""
---
# 1528 - CAL-MIRI-032  LRS External Flat Field
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1528
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                | Observing Template              | Science Target   |
| :------------------- | :------------------------------ | :--------------- |
| BD+60 1753 - slit    | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) BD+60-1753   |
| HD 163466 - slitless | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) HD163466     |
| BD+60 1753 - slit    | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) BD+60-1753   |
| HD 163466 - slitless | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) HD163466     |

## ABSTRACT

External flatfields will be taken to provide full flatfields for the MIRI LRS. These flats combine the information obtained separately as P-flats and L-flats for the imager. We will utilize the method tested during commissioning in CAR-MIRI-055 which steps a point source along the slit and across the SLITLESS subarray to build a flatfield. As in commissioning, we will use 1-pixel steps in the slit (45 pointings), but for slitless mode, we will use 2-pixel increments and cover the central 52 pixels of the slitless aperture (26 pointings; compared to a width of 68 science pixels), a change from Commissioning.

This calibration program is provisional and may change in response to system developments and the final science program.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will obtain the flatfields in two separate observations for BD+60 1753 in the LRS slit and HD 163466 in the LRS slitless aperture, in Month 1 of Cycle 1 and again in about Month 7.

TIMING CONSTRAINTS:

Observations 1 and 2 should be obtained in Months 1-2 of Cycle 1, and Observations 3-4 should follow in Months 7-8.

The flatfields are essential to the calibration of the LRS, and these observations are needed to confirm the initial observations in Commissioning and build the signal-to-noise to tolerable levels, so the requested observations in Months 1-2 have no flexibility.

Generally, any missed or failed observations should be repeated as soon as possible.

The observing times are constrained with special requirements, assuming a launch date of 25 Dec 2021 and the start of Cycle 1 six months later, on 23 Jun 2022. The visibility of HD 163466 reduces its availability in Month 7 (for Observation 4).

NOTES ON VISIBILITY WINDOWS:

Periods of invisibility in Cycle 1:
BD+60 1753: 27 Sep 22 - 31 Dec 22
HD 180609: 20 Jan 23 - 4 May 23
HD 163466: 5 Nov 22 - 18 Jan 23

BACKUP TARGET:

HD 180609 is the backup target for BD +60 1753. It requires integration times identical to BD+60. For the current schedule, it is not required.