---
id: 1529
proposal_type: "calibration"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: ""
program_title: "CAL-MIRI-034  LRS PSF Characterization"
type: ""
---
# 1529 - CAL-MIRI-034  LRS PSF Characterization
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1529
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label              | Observing Template                  | Science Target            |
| :----------------- | :---------------------------------- | :------------------------ |
| BD+60 1753 nod 1   | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy    | (1) BD+60-1753            |
| BD+60 1753 center  | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy    | (1) BD+60-1753            |
| BD+60 1753 nod 2   | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy    | (1) BD+60-1753            |
| BD+60 1753 offset  | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy    | (2) BD+60-1753-OFFSET     |
| HD 163466 slitless | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy    | (3) HD163466              |
| HD 163466 offset   | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy    | (4) HD163466-OFFSET       |

---

## ABSTRACT

In order to characterize the point spread function (PSF) as a function of wavelength in the LRS slit and slitless modes, we will scan a point source across the two nod positions and the center of the slit and across the nominal pointing position in the SLITLESSPRISM subarray. These observations will improve the signal/noise ratio (SNR) obtained during commissioning in CAR-MIRI-074. Detailed knowledge of the LRS PSF and the availability of a super-resolution PSF model will test the WebbPSF model, improve the SNR of the outer PSF, and facilitate better algorithms for extracting spectra from two-dimensional spectral images.

This calibration program is provisional and may change in response to system developments and final science program.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This program observes standard stars in the slit and in slitless mode with a sub-pixel scan to sample the point-spread function.

Observations 1-4 are a non-interruptible sequence.
Observations 5-6 are also a non-interruptible sequence.

TIMING CONTRAINTS:
Both sets of observations should be executed in the first 3 months of Cycle 1. Missed or failed observations need to be repeated within this window.
Timing constraints have been set in the special requirements section assuming a launch date of 25 Dec 2021 and the beginning of Cycle 1 six months later.

BACKUP TARGET:
HD 180609 is a backup target if BD+60 1753 is not available and can be observed with the same intergration times.