---
id: 1530
proposal_type: "calibration"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: ""
program_title: "CAL-MIRI-035  LRS Dispersion Correction"
type: ""
---
# 1530 - CAL-MIRI-035  LRS Dispersion Correction
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1530
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                   | Observing Template              | Science Target      |
| :---------------------- | :------------------------------ | :------------------ |
| VFTS 822 Epoch 1        | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) VFTS822         |
| HD 50083 Epoch 1        | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) HD50083         |
| HD 50083 Epoch 2        | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) HD50083         |
| HD 76534 slit           | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) HD76534         |
| SMP LMC-58 slit         | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (5) IRAS-05248-7007 |

## ABSTRACT

This activity will measure the dispersion solution for the LRS (slit and slitless) by observing Be stars, which have spectra full of hydrogen recombination lines. The Cycle 1 Cal observations build on observations during Commissioning and will be especially helpful at longer wavelengths where the sensitivity of the LRS is limited.

This calibration program is provisional and may change in response to system developments and the final science program.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This APT file includes four observations, each with one visit, two for VFTS 822, which will be observed in the LRS slit, and two for HD 50083, which will be observed in the LRS slitless mode.

TIMING CONSTRAINTS:
All timing constraints assume a launch date of 25 Dec 2021 and the beginning of Cycle 1 six months later.
VFTS 822 should be observed in Months 2 and 8 of Cycle 1 (Obs. 1 and 3, respectively). If necessary, Obs. 1 could occur in Month 1 (but not Month 3). Obs. 3 could occur one month early or late (Months 7-9). VFTS 822 is in the southern CVZ.
HD 50083 is visible in two 53-day windows each year, and it should be observed once in each window, regardless of when Cycle 1 begins. The timing constraints assume the launch date given above.
Missed or failed observations should be repeated within the originally requested observing window.

TARGETS:
JWST Astr 2 is a backup target for VFTS 822.