---
id: 1532
proposal_type: "calibration"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: ""
program_title: "CAL-MIRI-042  Coronagraph External Flat Field"
type: ""
---
# 1532 - CAL-MIRI-042  Coronagraph External Flat Field
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1532
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label         | Observing Template                       | Science Target           |
| :------------ | :--------------------------------------- | :----------------------- |
| P-FLAT F1065C | MIRI Coronagraphic Photometric Calibration | (5) ZODIACAL-LIGHT-P5  |
| P-FLAT F1140C | MIRI Coronagraphic Photometric Calibration | (5) ZODIACAL-LIGHT-P5  |
| P-FLAT F1550C | MIRI Coronagraphic Photometric Calibration | (5) ZODIACAL-LIGHT-P5  |
| P-FLAT F2300C | MIRI Coronagraphic Photometric Calibration | (5) ZODIACAL-LIGHT-P5  |
| L-FLAT F1065C | MIRI Coronagraphic Photometric Calibration | (6) LMC-MIRI-A-IMAGERFOV |
| L-FLAT F1140C | MIRI Coronagraphic Photometric Calibration | (6) LMC-MIRI-A-IMAGERFOV |
| L-FLAT F1550C | MIRI Coronagraphic Photometric Calibration | (6) LMC-MIRI-A-IMAGERFOV |
| L-FLAT F2300C | MIRI Coronagraphic Photometric Calibration | (6) LMC-MIRI-A-IMAGERFOV |

## ABSTRACT

This activity will build on commissioning activity CAR-MIRI-056, by providing updated flatfields for each coronagraphic aperture in Cycle 1. Both activities will provide data for two components of the flatfield: the Pixel-flat (P-flat) and the Low frequency flat (L-flat). The P-flat is obtained by dithering an extended source around each coronagraphic aperture, while the L-flat utilizes the 1000-points-of-light algorithm by dithering around a crowded star field. We will use the same technique as in commissioning: observing fields with strong zodiacal emission for the P-flats and the LMC astrometric field for the L-flats.
This calibration program is provisional and may change in response to system developments and the final science program.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Following the commissioning activity (CAL-MIRI-056), we will apply the algorithm developed by Arendt et al. (2000) for array calibration. This method basically shifts and adds the separate pointings to determine a mean, then shifts it back to each individual dither to determine responsivity variations as a function of position in each aperture. Flatfields generated in Cycle 1 will be compared to those from commissioning and if they are indistinguishable, they will be combined to improve the SNR.

TIMING CONSTRAINTS:
All timing constraints assume a launch date of 24 Dec 2021 and the beginning of Cycle 1 six months later.

All observations should be carried out within the first month of Cycle 1. There is a Special Requirements that links all of the observations together with a timing constraint Before Date 20-JUL-2022

Missed or failed observations should be repeated within the originally requested observing window.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION BELOW:
Both the P-flat and L-flat data will be obtained using the MIRI coronagraphic photometric template which provides a set 16 point dither pattern (4 positions each with a sub-dither of 4 points). The integration times in each dither position have been set to achieve a signal/noise ratio (SNR) of 300, which will give us a 3sigma detection on the expected 1% deviations in responsivity. However, it should be kept in mind that instrumental overhead dominate the total observing time for this activity.

This activity will be executed just once in Cycle 1. We assume that for the remainder of Cycle 1, we can use the internal lamp to monitor and update the P-flat and identify any pixels damaged from space weathering. In the one execution of this activity of Cycle 1, we will not repeat the full-frame P-flat measurements from commissioning. Instead, we will just use the coronagraphic subarrays for all measurements.