---
id: 1549
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Klaus Pontoppidan"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 13.4
program_title: "The Deepest Search for Rare Molecules and Isotopologues in Planet-forming Disks"
type: "GO"
---
# 1549 - The Deepest Search for Rare Molecules and Isotopologues in Planet-forming Disks
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1549
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label        | Observing Template              | Science Target      |
| :----------- | :------------------------------ | :------------------ |
| FZ Tau       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) V-FZ-TAU        |
| TW Cha       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) V-TW-CHA        |
| VZ Cha       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) V-VZ-CHA        |
| 515 Athalia  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (8) 515-ATHALIA     |
| 526 Jena     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (6) 526-JENA        |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose to obtain deep 4.9-28.4 micron MIRI spectroscopy of three molecule-rich protoplanetary disks, known to show very bright water line emission in their Spitzer spectra. Infrared molecular emission from protoplanetary disks traces material near 1 AU - the terrestrial planet forming region. The deep spectra will be used to search for the rarest molecular species that JWST can detect, including heavy isotopologues of water, as well as important carriers of nitrogen and carbon. We will in particular search for H2_18O to measure the H2_16O/H2_18O ratio in disks and determine whether the oxygen is enriched in the heavier isotopologue as is seen in primitive solar system material. We will also search for warm NH3 and CH4 as signposts of a vigorous primordial chemistry in the terrestrial planet-forming region. As the volatility of the molecular carriers of carbon, nitrogen and oxygen determine the amount of each are available for accretion onto planets, these observations will provide a critical comparison to exoplanet atmospheric chemistry.

As a critical and necessary part of this proposal, we will obtain deep spectra of two bright asteroids for the construction of very high signal-to-noise ratio spectral response curves (SRFs). Such empirical SRFs are needed to robustly remove the strong, high-frequency fringes present in MIRI-MRS at the ~20% level, and were similarly critical for calibrating the Spitzer-IRS mid-infrared spectra of protoplanetary disks. Recognizing the importance of conservative fringe removal for other MIRI-MRS programs, we waive the exclusive access period so that other MRS spectra of bright point sources can realize their full scientific potential.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This is a program to obtain very high signal-to-noise ratio MIRI-MRS spectra of 3 protoplanetary disks known to have very right molecular emission spectra. The spectra will contain many lines from water, C2H2, HCN, CH4, NH3, OH and their isotopologues. We are in particular interested in H218O, which can be used to search for the effects of selective photodissociation of CO, followed by water formation. This mechanism has been proposed to explain the strong oxygen isotope anomaly observed in solar system chondrites.

In order to achieve a required signal-to-noise ratio of 300 or more, especially at the longest wavelengths, the strong MIRI MRS fringes must be removed using empirical standard spectra of bright sources with known spectral shapes, obtained at even higher SNRs. To that end we will observe two bright main belt asteroids, 515 Athalia and 526 Jena. These are known to have spectra with almost no features, and a shape that can be well described by a 210 K blackbody.

There are no special requirements on scheduling the asteroid observations to maximize flexibility, but we note that putting them on the schedule early will likely increase their potential use with the community. This may also inform future revisions of the formal MIRI calibration plan, something we have discussed with the MIRI team lead, as well as representatives from the MIRI European Consortium.