---
id: 1554
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Roberto Decarli"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "7.8"
program_title: "Nebular Line Diagnostics in a Merger at Cosmic Dawn"
type: "GO"
---
# 1554 - Nebular Line Diagnostics in a Merger at Cosmic Dawn
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1554
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label          | Observing Template         | Science Target      |
| :------------- | :------------------------- | :------------------ |
| IFU PJ308-21   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy   | (1) Group PJ308-21  |

---

## ABSTRACT

At z>6 (when the Universe is <1 Gyr old), luminous quasars are exceptionally active: their central engine is a rapidly accreting supermassive (~1e9 Msun) black hole which resides in an intensely star-forming galaxy that is ab order of magnitude more massive than typical galaxies at these redshifts. How can we account for such a rapid growth of these extreme sources? The exceptional quasar PJ308-21 may offer an answer. High-resolution HST and ALMA imaging demonstrates that the quasar host is undergoing a merger with one or more satellite galaxies. For the first time at these redshifts, host galaxy starlight is detected around a luminous quasar. A prominent Ly-alpha halo, detected with MUSE on the ESO/VLT, partially overlaps the companion galaxy. The data in hand already show all the agents of rapid galaxy growth at play: gas, dust, star formation, and nuclear activity. Here we propose to capitalize on the unprecedented capabilities of JWST to secure NIRSpec IFU observations, creating Halpha, Hbeta, [OIII] and [NII] maps which will enable: 1) a characterization of the ionized gas physical properties (metallicity, ionization parameter, powering mechanism) and a test for the presence of outflows; 2) an estimate of the stellar mass of the satellite galaxy; 3) a precise timing of the star formation event, which we will use to understand the role of the gravitational interaction in triggering the starburst; 4) a test of the origin of the Ly-alpha halo. These observations will lead to a fundamental new understanding of the build-up of massive galaxies and black holes in the early universe.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to secure NIRSpec IFU observations of the quasar+galaxy merging system PJ308-21 at z=6.234. Very recently, ALMA has provided first unambiguous evidence of satellite galaxies around quasars. The targeted system is the poster child of merging galaxies at z>6: High angular resolution (~0.2" or ~1 kpc) observations of the rest-frame UV starlight emission (from HST) and of the [CII] and rest-frame FIR dust continuum (from ALMA) reveal the interplay of gas, dust, star formation, and nuclear activity. We can explain the intricate morphology with a current dynamical model invoking the tidal stripping of one or more satellite galaxies orbiting in close proximity to the quasar host galaxy. In addition, a bright Ly-alpha halo extends on the Eastern side of the quasar host, partially overlapping the satellite galaxy.
The system can be covered in only two IFU pointings. A third pointing off-source will be used for background subtraction. We will target key optical diagnostic emission lines: Halpha, Hbeta, [OIII], [NII], as well as the stellar optical continuum emission, all in a single spectral setup. The goals of the project include measuring the instantaneous star formation rate, reconstructing the kinematics of the ionized gas, constraining metallicity, ionization parameter, probing the origin of the Ly-alpha halo, measuring its metallicity and ionization parameter, and assessing the stellar mass budget of the system.