---
id: 1568
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: John Stansberry  Co-PIs: David Trilling and Wesley Fraser"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "45.1"
program_title: "An Ultra-Sensitive Pencil Beam Search for 10 km Trans-Neptunian Objects"
type: "GO"
---
# 1568 - An Ultra-Sensitive Pencil Beam Search for 10 km Trans-Neptunian Objects
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1568
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
1.  **List of Labels, Observing Templates, and Science Targets (from the OBSERVATIONS table):**

    | Label                        | Observing Template | Science Target      |
    | :--------------------------- | :----------------- | :------------------ |
    | TNO Pencil Beam epoc h 1 12hr | NIRCam Imaging     | (2) ECLIPTIC-RA12H  |
    | TNO Pencil Beam epoc h 2 12hr | NIRCam Imaging     | (2) ECLIPTIC-RA12H  |
    | TNO Pencil Beam epoc h 3 12hr | NIRCam Imaging     | (2) ECLIPTIC-RA12H  |
    | TNO Pencil Beam epoc h 1 Ohr | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) ECLIPTIC-RA0H   |
    | TNO Pencil Beam epoc h 2 0hr | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) ECLIPTIC-RA0H   |
    | TNO Pencil Beam epoc h 3 Ohr | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) ECLIPTIC-RA0H   |

## ABSTRACT

    We propose to use JWST and NIRCam to carry out a search for the faintest trans-Neptunian objects (TNOs) ever detected. We will detect 30 objects as small as 7 km at distances up to 45 AU, placing strong constraints on the small size distribution, and thereby testing competing models for the formation and collisional evolution of trans-Neptunian objects. We will also probe deep into the size regime of Centaurs and Jupiter Family Comets, empirically measuring the size distribution of similarly-sized TNOs where Centaurs and JFCs are sourced. The result of this program will be a huge advance in our understanding of the dynamical and chemical evolution currently occurring in the distant Solar System. This experiment can only be carried out with JWST.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

    Three NIRCam mosaics must be executed at epochs separated by about 5 days, with the middle epoch occuring when the target is within +/- ~1deg of solar elongation 100deg.
    As submitted, the Special Requirements satisfy the above conditions for the ECLIPTIC-RA12H target for its May-Jun 2022 apparition. If the program is not executed then, or if there are scheduling reasons to switch to the ECLIPTIC-RA0H target, the special requirements will have to be updated to achieve the science.
    While the purpose of these observations is to detect moving targets, our pointings are defined in terms of fixed targets. We will employ post-processing of the data in order to detect objects that move through the field