---
id: 1572
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Helmut Dannerbauer  Co-PI: Yusei Koyama"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "3.6"
program_title: "Mapping, Resolving and Penetrating into the Dusty Spiderweb Protocluster with Unique Pa-beta Imaging"
type: "GO"
---
# 1572 - Mapping, Resolving and Penetrating into the Dusty Spiderweb Protocluster with Unique Pa-beta Imaging
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1572
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                      | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :------------------------- | :----------------- | :------------- |
| NIRCam PaB imaging of Spiderweb | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) SPIDERWEB  |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose to conduct a unique and very efficient Pa-beta imaging (1.4hrs science time!) of the best-studied galaxy cluster in formation, called "Spiderweb" protocluster, at z=2.16, with the NIRCam F405N filter. Our primary goal is to map the entire star formation activities across this starbursting protocluster, and within individual galaxies therein, by spatially resolving the dust-enshrouded star forming regions. We will unveil all the star forming activities down to a SFR of 3.5 solar masses per year, free from dust extinction, making a complete census of the protocluster (core). By mapping the SFR(Pa-beta)/SFR(UV) ratio within the galaxies in combination with the existing HST/ACS data, we will pinpoint the locations of dusty star-forming regions within the young cluster galaxies, - for a subset of members even matching at a similar spatial resolution of 1kpc ALMA dust continuum imaging. Taking advantage of the multi-wavelength, ancillary data available for the target field, we will calibrate the different star-formation indicators such as H-alpha, Pa-beta, dust continuum and rest-UV to NIR SEDs and we will determine the star-formation mode of each member galaxy. Simultaneously for free, we will observe with F115W (rest-U) and F182M (rest-V) at the SW channel of NIRCam, to map the distribution of quiescent and star-forming regions (and stellar mass surface density) for >100 known cluster members (out of which 61 are z-spec confirmed). The proposed Pa-beta imaging - as this line falls luckily in F405N - is the most powerful, unbiased approach to reveal the complete picture of the stellar mass assembly process in this young protocluster environment at cosmic noon.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose redshifted Pa-beta imaging with the NIRCam F405N filter of a galaxy protocluster at z=2.16. In addition, we request F410M broad-band imaging to subtract the continuum and thus obtain Pa-beta line emission. For the SW channel we choose F115W and F162M. The combination of the proposed broad-/medium-band filters (F115W, F182M, F410M) trace the rest-frame U, V, J-bands. We exploit a primary dither pattern of "FULLBOX 4TIGHT" with ROWSx2 (overlap=35%) and COLUMNx1 to map ~3'x6' FoV where HST/ACS (G475W, I814W) data exist. With the image quality of 0.14" of NIRCam at 4micron, we can spatially resolve the Pa-beta-based SF activity within the galaxies on ~1-kpc scale, which is comparable to the existing HST (rest-UV) data. The requested observing times are 3780 sec (for F405N and F115W) and 1288 sec (for F410M and F182M), with which we can achieve 5-sigma point source sensitivity of 28.5 mag (F115W), 27.0 mag (F182M), 26.2 mag (F405N), and 27.3 mag (F410M). Accordingly, we exploit the read-out patterns of "SHALLOW4" (BRIGHT1) with Ngroups=9 (8), NINT=1 (1), and NEXP=8 (8) for F405N (and F410M), respectively.