---
id: 1604
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Glenn Orton"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "8.3"
program_title: "Dynamics and Temporal Variability in the Atmosphere of Neptune"
type: "GO"
---
# 1604 - Dynamics and Temporal Variability in the Atmosphere of Neptune
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1604
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label              | Observing Template                  | Science Target            |
| :----------------- | :---------------------------------- | :------------------------ |
| Neptune-Lon1A      | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) NEPTUNE               |
| Neptune-Lon2A      | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) NEPTUNE               |
| Neptune-Lon3A      | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) NEPTUNE               |
| Neptune-Background | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) NEPTUNE-BACKGROUND    |

**Neptune Epoch 2**

| Label              | Observing Template                  | Science Target            |
| :----------------- | :---------------------------------- | :------------------------ |
| Neptune-Lon1B      | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) NEPTUNE               |
| Neptune-Lon2B      | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) NEPTUNE               |
| Neptune-Lon3B      | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) NEPTUNE               |
| Neptune-Background | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) NEPTUNE-BACKGROUND    |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose short sequences of spatially resolved spectroscopic thermal observations of Neptune using MIRI within Cycle 1 to follow up GTO observations in order to determine the variability of temperatures, composition and dyanamics on intermediate- to short-term time scales. Specific science goals include a deeper understanding of the influence of radiation and dynamics on polar and quasi-polar phenomena, storms and planetary-scale changes, longitudinal thermal waves and time-variable oscillations, as well as results of "cometary" atmospheric impacts. Despite the well-documented intermediate- and short-term variabiity of Neptune's cloud structure, no observations have been made on similar time scales to understand the correlated variability of temperatures, clouds and 3-dimensional dynamics.

MIRI is the ideal instrument for making the first of such observations. The implications of these results have a broad application, as Neptune represents a cold end-member of a large segment of a populous class of similar-sized exoplanets. Determination of Neptune's dynamics will provide insight into these bodies, e.g. providing clues as to the origin of rotational variability originates from inhomgeneous distributions of temperatures or composition versus cloud cover.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Neptune global spatial-spectral map using MIRI, sampling two longitudes separated by 180 degrees of longitude.

Neptune rotates in 16 hours, 6 minutes. The time between adjacent observations during the first epoch is therefore 4.3hrs, the time between observations during the second epoch is 8.0hrs.

The preferred epoch for our observations is in the next available solar elongation window after the GTO observations of Neptune. Observations proposed for 2-6 weeks later would remain in this window.

Notes:
1. PRECISE LONGITUDES ARE FLEXIBLE: These have now been implemented as an "after observation" constraint.
2. DITHERING: MIRI assumes a 4-point dither pattern to optimise the imaging of this 2.3" diameter disc. Large 1" dither offsets should be avoided, as the purpose is to improve spatial sampling for ALL of the MIRI channels. If a 2-point dither pattern is found to be sufficient for these moving targets, then we would consider changing the dithering technique prior to execution to increase the exposure time.
3. BACKGROUND: MIRI observations assume a single offset to a background region of sky (20" is acceptable, provided no Neptunian satellites are in the field of view). This would be best scheduled immediately before or after one of the science exposures.
4. SATURATION: The SHORT detector (channels 1 and 2) show no sign of saturating for 8 groups in the methane band at 7.66 µm (the brightest spectral point from 5-11 µm). The LONG detector (channels 3 and 4) saturate in the 5th group near C2H2 emission at 13.7 µm, so we selected 4 groups.