---
id: 1611
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging  NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Klaus Pontoppidan"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "15.7"
program_title: "A Chemical Census of Volatile Ices in Protostellar Envelopes"
type: "GO"
---
# 1611 - A Chemical Census of Volatile Ices in Protostellar Envelopes
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1611
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                  | Observing Template              | Science Target      |
| :--------------------- | :------------------------------ | :------------------ |
| NIRCam pre-image       | NIRCam Imaging                  | (4) SERPENS-MAIN    |
| Serpens_North_Plan_Correct | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (1) Serpens_Targets |
| Serpens_South          | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (1) Serpens_Targets |

## ABSTRACT

We propose to obtain an inventory of bulk volatiles in the youngest protostellar envelopes, just prior to the final assembly of protoplanetary disks. This will trace late-stage chemical evolution of young stellar envelopes, and establish the initial conditions of water and organics for comparison to observations of protoplanetary disk chemistry. To accomplish this goal, we will take advantage of the dense cluster of class 0 protostellar envelopes in the Serpens Main cloud. This cluster is sufficiently dense, and is located at a near-optimum distance and low galactic latitude, to allow us to use the multi-object spectroscopy mode of NIRSpec to obtain 2-5 micron ice absorption spectra toward ~150 highly extincted field stars, including at least ~30 sightlines directly through the protostellar envelopes. Using the incredible sensitivity of NIRSpec, we will be able to probe extinctions as high as Av~75 mag needed to reveal rare ice species. We estimate that we will obtain ~5 lines of sight through each of 6-8 protostellar envelopes, providing radial maps of relative ice abundances on scales of a few thousand au. The column densities of bulk ices are readily observed in the 2-5 micron region, including much of the oxygen-bearing inventory, as well as simple organics (e.g, H2O, CO2, CO, CH3OH). Particularly methanol ice is a critical, yet poorly understood, cornerstone of pre-planetary organic chemistry. The high column densities also allows for sensitive searches for the rare isotopologues 13CO, 13CO2, and HDO. The two former enables studies of dust grain shapes, while the latter may yield the first robust measurements of the deuteration fraction of pre-planetary material.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This proposal consists of 4 NIRSpec MSA pointings/configurations, as well as a set of NIRCam pre-imaging observations.

NIRSpec MSA: The observational plan follows the standard procedure for NIRSpec MSA with pre-imaging. The 4 NIRSpec MSA configurations use the G235M and G395H gratings to be observed for each configuration. Because the objective of the proposal is to observe absorption bands, rather than emission features, it is not critical that all the targets are centered in shutters to high precision. Consequently, the MSA Planning Tools is configured to consider the full shutter area for target selection, to maximize the number of targets that can be observed in each configuration. Similarly, we allow for background contamination by failed open shutters.

NIRCam pre-imaging: The pre-imaging uses 2 mosaic tiles, 4 NIRCam filters, all to be observed with the BRIGHT2 readout pattern and 7 groups. These are coupled with the 6TIGHT dither pattern to ensure spatial coverage of the full Serpens Main cluster, and obtain good quality astrometry and photometry. The 4 filters and associated colors will be used to select a final MSA candidate list of extincted background field stars. The imaging is designed to obtain point source images for astrometry of stars in the 18-25 mag range, using the natural extinction of the cloud to image the brightest stars at short wavelengths, where extinction prevents them from saturating.

We use the default special timing requirements for NIRSpec MSA observations with pre-imaging. We impose a PA range requirement of the pre-imaging to ensure that our field will be appropriately covered with the given mosaic parameters.