---
id: 1619
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging  MIRI/LRS  NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Martha Boyer"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "24.1/2.1"
program_title: "Dust Formation in a Primitive Environment"
type: "GO"
---
# 1619 - Dust Formation in a Primitive Environment
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1619
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                  | Observing Template               | Science Target       |
| :--------------------- | :------------------------------- | :------------------- |
| (blank for Obs. 2)     | MIRI Imaging                     | (9) SEXA-MIRI        |
| LRS 90034-M            | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (36) 90034-M         |
| LRS 94328-M            | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (21) 94328-M         |
| LRS 94477-U            | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (22) 94477-U         |
| LRS 90428-U            | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (17) 90428-U         |
| LRS 86434-C            | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (14) 86434-C         |
| LRS 92104-C            | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (20) 92104-C         |
| NIRCam Imaging POS 2   | NIRCam Imaging                   | (41) SEXA-NRC-POS2   |
| NIRCam Imaging POS 1   | NIRCam Imaging                   | (40) SEXA-NRC-POS1   |

---

## ABSTRACT

Observations suggest that Asymptotic Giant Branch (AGB) stars contribute significantly to the dust budgets of galaxies, from our own Presolar Nebula to the Magellanic Clouds. However, models suggest their contribution should decrease with metallicity, possibly becoming overshadowed by supernova and interstellar grain growth in primitive environments. Recent observations of nearby dwarf galaxies contradict this prediction, showing that AGB dust forms easily at low metallicity, which allows AGB stars to contribute dust as early as 30 Myr after they form in the early Universe. Because of limitations in sensitivity, absolutely nothing is known about the mineralogy, the grain properties, or the even the quantity of this extremely metal-poor dust. We propose observations of the nearby dwarf galaxy Sextans A, which is the Goldilocks galaxy for a comprehensive assessment of the effect of primitive abundances on dust formation because it 1) is nearby enough to escape crowding and sensitivity limits at the longest wavelengths, 2) is extremely metal-poor (just ~7% solar or 2.5x lower than the SMC), 3) is known to harbor a large AGB population that spans the full AGB mass range, 4) many of these AGB stars are known to be dusty, and 5) dust has been detected in its interstellar medium. No other galaxy comes close to providing the opportunities afforded by Sextans A. We will image the star-forming disk with NIRCam and MIRI from 0.9-25.5 microns, with careful filter selection to fully sample key molecular and dust features. We will also obtain LRS spectra of 6 known dusty stars to guide our interpretation of the photometry around the most prominent infrared features from 5-12 microns.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will target Sextans A with NIRCam imaging, MIRI imaging, and MIRI LRS spectroscopy. We have two NIRCam pointings, one using the FULL array, and one using just Module B. Together, they cover the main body of the galaxy. We image in 5 filter pairs with the SHALLOW4 readout and 6 groups. We will do 3 subpixel dithers; there is no need for Primary dithers to cover the shortwave detector gaps. We split the NIRCam pointings to keep the data rate low and to improve schedulability.

We are using a 2x2 MIRI mosaic with 5 filters, the FAST readout pattern, and a range of groups and integrations to meet the necessary exposure depth. We use the 4-point dither. The MIRI mosaic will cover approximately the same area as that covered by NIRCam.

We will do LRS spectroscopy of 6 targets, each within the NIRCam and MIRI imaging footprints. For each, we use the Full array, with a dither along the slit nod. We use the FAST readout with groups, integrations, and exposures adding up to ~1600s. We are obtaining verification images. Target acquisition will be performed on the target stars, with exposure parameters set so that S/N>40. We have inspected the region around the target stars both in Spitzer 4.5 micron images and in HST F153M images, and find no other bright sources in the ROI.

Each of the NIRCam pointings has an attached MIRI parallel that will serve as the background. The depth of these MIRI parallels matches that of the prime MIRI mosaic.

We have set a number of Special Requirements:
1) All observations to occur within 15 days to mitigate issues with AGB variability.
2) We have scheduled the MIRI and NIRCam imaging observations to be non-interruptible to minimize background variability between the prime MIRI observations and the parallel backgrounds.
3) We restrict the PA of our MIRI map and one of our NIRCam fields to ensure that all of the LRS targets are covered. (The other NIRCam field can be observed at any angle.)
4) We have set the Background limited option to remain no more than 20% above the minimum.
5) We have set a target offset for observation 14 to ensure that the field rotates around the center of a module instead of rotating around the module gap.