---
id: 1621
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Ilaria Pascucci"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "15.1"
program_title: "Testing the Emerging Paradigm of Wind-driven Accretion with NIRSpec Spectro-imaging"
type: "GO"
---
# 1621 - Testing the Emerging Paradigm of Wind-driven Accretion with NIRSpec Spectro-imaging
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1621
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label        | Observing Template       | Science Target      |
| :----------- | :----------------------- | :------------------ |
| HH30         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) HH30            |
| TAU042021    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (2) TAU042021       |
| IRAS04302    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (3) IRAS04302       |
| HKTAUB       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (4) HKTAUB          |
| FSTAUB       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (5) FSTAUB          |

---

## ABSTRACT

We may be at the brink of a paradigm shift in our understanding of how protoplanetary disks evolve, a shift that would have major implications for planet formation. Departing from MRI-driven turbulence, the emerging theoretical scenario relies on MHD disk winds to vertically extract angular momentum and thus enable accretion of disk gas onto the star. However, wind-driven accretion requires that: i) MHD winds are radially extended out to tens of au; and ii) wind mass loss rates are an order of magnitude higher than in jets, i.e. comparable to mass accretion rates. Here, we propose to carry out deep NIRPSpec/IFU spectro-imaging from ~1 to 5 micron to simultaneously cover multiple jet, wind, and accretion diagnostics and specifically test these key theoretical predictions. With an IFU spaxel of 0.1", our sample of five well-characterized edge-on disks in Taurus, with no or minimal envelope, is ideally suited to map the radial and vertical extent of MHD disk winds. By setting the sensitivity to detect over ten H2 rovibrational lines and three critical [FeII] lines, we will measure densities and temperatures in the wind and jet, respectively. In combination with the first direct measurements of the wind vertical extent, we will estimate mass loss rates. Through the first sensitive high-resolution thermal images in the CO fundamental we will also probe the wind closer to its launch height and reveal to what extent volatiles are depleted from the disk. Finally, by covering the stellar masses over which jets and winds have been inferred from ground-based data, our spatially resolved images will guide mass loss rate estimates for all sources that have slow wind signatures.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

These observations aim at spatially resolving jets and disk winds with NIRSpec/IFU. We have selected 5 edge-on disks (IRAS 04302, HKTauB, FSTauB, HH30, and Tau042021) so that the vertical & radial extent of the wind can be well mapped. We have selected 3 high-resolution grating-filter combinations (G140H/F100LP, G235H/F170LP, and G395H/F290LP) to detect multiple jet and wind diagnostics, as well as stellar accretion rate tracers. The G395H for HKTauB is covered by the MIRI/GTO program 1282 (PI, Th. Henning), hence not included here.