---
id: 1626
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Mauro Stefanon"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "14.1"
program_title: "Achieving a Revolutionary Panchromatic View of Early Galaxy Growth through NIRSpec/IFU Observations of 12 Massive z>6.5 Galaxies with ALMA-derived [CII] Redshifts"
type: "GO"
---
# 1626 - Achieving a Revolutionary Panchromatic View of Early Galaxy Growth through NIRSpec/IFU Observations of 12 Massive z>6.5 Galaxies with ALMA-derived [CII] Redshifts
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1626
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template     | Science Target      |
| :---- | :--------------------- | :------------------ |
|       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) REBELS-05       |
|       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (2) REBELS-08       |
|       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (3) REBELS-12       |
|       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (4) REBELS-14       |
|       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (5) REBELS-15       |
|       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (7) REBELS-25       |
|       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (8) REBELS-29       |
|       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (9) REBELS-32       |
|       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (10) REBELS-34      |
|       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (11) REBELS-38      |
|       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (12) REBELS-39      |
|       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (12) REBELS-39      |
|       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (4) REBELS-14       |

*Note: The "Label" column in the source document's OBSERVATIONS table is empty for all entries.*

---

## ABSTRACT

One of the most significant longstanding questions is how rapidly the most massive galaxies build up in the early universe. Addressing this question directly has not been possible due to a lack of a sizeable sample of spectroscopically-confirmed, especially high-mass galaxies in the early Universe on which to execute physical studies. Excitingly enough, we are now on the brink of making significant progress thanks to identification of a large sample of massive galaxies in the z>6.5 universe from ongoing ALMA large program observations. Galaxies have spectroscopic redshifts from [CII] and show prominent emission in the far-IR. We propose to obtain NIRSpec IFU R100 observations for 12 of the brightest [CII]-detected sources from this sample. Our IFU observations will provide us with a unique high spatial resolution view of both the stellar mass and unobscured star formation rates in these high-mass sources, as well as the metallicity and radiation fields. Thanks to the size of our sample, we will be able to evaluate the efficiency of star formation in galaxies at early times, determine the impact of merger-driven star formation on stellar mass growth in z>6 galaxies, and explore correlations between a wide variety of different physical properties deriveable from the joint JWST+ALMA data set. The significantly higher mass/SFRs of sources in our sample as compared to JADES and CEERS program will allow us to uniquely explore the properties of galaxies to very high masses. The resulting JWST+ALMA dataset will establish a reference sample of reionization epoch galaxies with unique panchromatic information for the JWST era and beyond.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This program targets 12 exceptionally bright (mH~24.5-25) star-forming galaxies spectroscopically confirmed to lie at z~7 based on the detection of [CII]158um line with ALMA, which also provides dust continuum detection for 9 of them. The purpose of our proposed JWST NIRSpec/IFU R100 Prism observations is to obtain both integrated and spatially resolved constraints on the stellar mass, unobscured star formation rates, and radiation fields for significant sample of especially massive [CII]-detected galaxies at z>6.5. Our proposed IFU data would allow us to characterize the extent to which star formation in high-redshift galaxies is especially efficient at early times, determine the impact of merger-driven star formation on stellar mass growth in z>6 galaxies, and characterize the ionization fields. To execute our scientific goals efficiently, we propose to observe each source with an on-source integration time of 1730sec. Given we expect our sources could be composed by two or more clumps (~1arcsec apart), we adopt a 4-point dither, providing sub-pixel sampling to improve the spatial resolution of our observations.