---
id: 1633
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS  NIRCam/GTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Drake Deming"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 39
program_title: "A Deep Molecular Survey of HD 189733b"
type: "GO"
---
# 1633 - A Deep Molecular Survey of HD 189733b
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1633
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                  | Observing Template                   | Science Target |
| :--------------------- | :----------------------------------- | :------------- |
| MIRI MRS A transit     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy  | (1) HD-189733  |
| MIRI MRS transit B     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy  | (1) HD-189733  |
| MIRI MRS transit C     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy  | (1) HD-189733  |
| NIRCam F322 transit    | NIRCam Grism Time Series             | (1) HD-189733  |
| INIRCam F444 transit   | NIRCam Grism Time Series             | (1) HD-189733  |

---

## ABSTRACT

HD 189733b is the archetype of hot Jupiters. We propose to measure the molecular inventory and cloud composition in its atmosphere to high sensitivity. We will observe its transit spectrum over a large range of wavelength, using 5 transits: two observed with NIRCam grisms, and three with MIRI MRS. The resulting composite transit spectrum spans from 2.4 to beyond 20 microns, and includes strong bands of the major atmospheric molecules (water, methane, carbon monoxide, and carbon dioxode), as well as strong bands of important minor species (HCN, ammonia, and hydrogen sulfide). There is evidence that exoplanets show a mass-metallicity trend that differs from planets in our Solar System when water vapor (oxygen) is used as the proxy for metallicity. We will measure the atmospheric metallicity of HD 189733b to a precision of 0.025-dex using CNO elements, and determine unequivocally whether it is consistent with the Solar System's relation, or not. We will also probe atmospheric chemical disequilibrium by detecting minor species that are depleted (methane) or enhanced by vertical transport (HCN), or produced by photochemistry (hydrogen sulfide, from sulfur photochemistry). Our analysis will successfully deal with possible interference due to stellar activity, and we will measure the cloud composition using vibrational modes in the thermal IR. Although this planet transits a very bright star (Kmag=5.54), we are using moderately high spectral resolution and the observations will not be hindered by saturation. These are low-risk observations for Cycle-1 because the signals to be measured are large, and the scientific return is substantial.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

5 transits of HD189733b, two with NIRCam grisms (F322W2 and F444W), and one transit in each of the three grating settings for MIRI MRS.