---
id: 1635
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging  NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Crystal Martin"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "35.2/9.7"
program_title: "Galaxy Protoclusters as Drivers of Cosmic Reionization"
type: "GO"
---
# 1635 - Galaxy Protoclusters as Drivers of Cosmic Reionization
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1635
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                          | Observing Template              | Science Target             |
| :----------------------------- | :------------------------------ | :------------------------- |
| feb17-NRS-I-246.8-filler       | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (1) CATLAE-WEST-FINAL-I    |
| feb18-NRS-II-filler            | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (2) CATLAE-WEST-FINAL-II   |
| feb19-NRS-III-245.623-filler   | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (37) CATLAE-WEST-FINAL-III |
| feb18-NRS-IV-245.666-filler    | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (36) CATLAE-WEST-FINAL-IV  |
| feb19-NRS-V-filler             | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (35) CATLAE-WEST-FINAL-V   |
|                                | NIRCam Imaging                  | (3) Z7OD-MOSAIC-OBS25      |
|                                | NIRCam Imaging                  | (7) Z7OD-MOSAIC-OBS26      |

## ABSTRACT

The environmental dependence of galaxy properties today requires an accelerated assembly history in high density environments. Protoclusters, the overdense regions of the universe that ultimately collapse into massive galaxy clusters, contribute a significant fraction of all cosmic star formation during the era of reionization. The galaxy overdensity may enhance the escape of ionizing photons, making protoclusters crucial in driving the timing and topology of cosmic reionization. We propose to measure the brightest rest-frame-optical emission lines from spectrosopically-confirmed galaxies comprising the largest overdensity yet identified near the midpoint of cosmic reionization, z7OD. Eight protocluster members, identified by their Lyman-alpha emission, are the primary targets for these NIRSpec MOS observations, which will measure rest-frame optical emission lines between the [OII] doublet and hydrogen Balmer alpha lines. We aim to measure the transmission of the IGM in and around an ionized, cosmic bubble, determine the physical properties of the galaxies that ionized the bubble, and compare them to field galaxies at z > 3.37 (observed simultaneously). We will measure the Lyman-alpha escape fraction and the Lyman-alpha velocity offset, information required to map spatial variation in IGM transmission. Protoclusters at this redshift are predicted to contain significant amount of cold gas, possibly triggering high specific star formation rates and accelerating the chemical evolution of the galaxies; ideas we will test by directly measuring diagnostic emission-line ratios.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will image the western ionized bubble of z7OD, a redshift 6.93 protocluster on the edge of the COSMOS field, using NIRCAM and then measure astrometric positions for eight z7OD LAEs and a field sample of ~36 (130) galaxies at redshifts greater than 4.9 (3.37), respectively. Multi-object spectroscopy with NIRSPEC will then provide observed-frame-optical spectra including strong emission lines from H-beta and the [O III] doublet. We chose the high dispersion grating (G395H, R~3700) to resolve line profiles. ETC calculations show no loss of sensitivity (relative to G395M) when G395H spectra are binned because the observations are (zodiacal) background limited. Five MSA configurations are required in order to place the eight LAEs in shutters in the upper left corner of quadrant 3 or 4, thereby covering the H-alpha emission line.

**NIRCAM Pre-imaging:**
We request NIRCam pre-imaging of five fields with the short (F150W2) and long (F444W) wavelength cameras. A fullbox dither pattern with 6TIGHT spacing was chosen to eliminate detector gaps and create a continuous image following the elongation of the protocluster. With the MEDIUM8 readout pattern, 6 (west) and 8 (east, fainter galaxies) groups in each integration, and two subpixel dithers to improve PSF sampling, the 12 integrations provide exposure tims of 7473 s and 10,049, respectively. We expect to detect y=27.4 LAEs at SNR ratios of 34 and 40 in F150W2 in the west and east mosaics.

**NIRSPEC Multi-object Spectroscopy:**
We observe five fields. These observations do not require nodding but do require 1 dither (~80 shutters) to cover the wavelength gap. The MSA will be reconfigured following the dither. We designed the first configuration in each field using the automated mode of MPT, a possible PA, a three-shutter slitlet, and the "Entire Open Shutter Area" source centering constraint. Once Observations 2, 4, 6, 8, and 10 are assigned a PA, we will revise the MSA Plans in MPT.

Our H-Balmer line science can be completed with H-beta, but we will make every effort to observe H-alpha for each LAE. Spectral coverage starts at the blocking filter cutoff (2.87 micron) and reaches a shutter-position-dependent maximum wavelength of up to 5.27 micron based on ETC calculations. The redshift of z7OD is the maximum redshift at which NIRSPEC can cover H-alpha. Each MSA configuration covers 1 or 2 Z7OD LAEs, which we place in the upper left corner of quadrant 3 or 4 by adjusting that Plan's RA and DEC. We then use the MSAViz tool to check that the observed wavelength of H-alpha (5.20 - 5.23 micron) falls on the detector, iteratively shifting the pointing to move the LAE into a shutter further left (NIRSPEC 'X' coordinate). We duplicated this configuration and will manually edit it to include an ~80 shutter shift to close the wavelength gap, again checking the direction to ensure that the H-alpha line still falls on the detector. Spectroscopy at the second position closes the wavelength gap between the detectors, a region where some high-redshift sources will have an H-beta or [O III] line (although all 3 lines never fall in the gap at the same time). We then manually edit the filler galaxies, attempting to add the filler galaxies from the first configuration but replacing those that fall on a permanently closed shutter with another target. The final step in our custom mask design is to open shutters that will measure the sky background. This custom design selects ~7 seven shutters for each science target in the plan, matching the target's X-position on the MSA to obtain the required wavelength coverage. A master background spectrum will be created from the extracted 1D sky spectra.

**PARALLEL OBSERVATIONS:**
NIRCAM imaging (F090W, F115W, F150W, F200W, F322W2, F410M, and F444W) will be obtained during the NIRSPEC observations. These images provide the first high-resolution, infrared imaging of this area of the COSMOS field, so we expect them to be of use to a wide community. We plan the NIRCAM parallel imaging around the two NIRSPEC configuration (~18" separation in the 'X-direction') and match them to the exposures at each location.