---
id: 1638
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Kristen McQuinn"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "6.8/2"
program_title: "Securing the TRGB Distance Indicator: A Pre-Requisite for a JWST Measurement of H_0"
type: "GO"
---
# 1638 - Securing the TRGB Distance Indicator: A Pre-Requisite for a JWST Measurement of H_0
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1638
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label    | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :------- | :----------------- | :------------- |
| NGC2403  | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) NGC-2403   |
| NGC300   | NIRCam Imaging     | (2) NGC-300    |
| M81      | NIRCam Imaging     | (3) M-81       |
| NGC253   | NIRCam Imaging     | (4) NGC-253    |

## ABSTRACT

The tip of the red giant branch (TRGB) is arguably one of the most precise and efficient distance indicators for nearby galaxies. TRGB distances are a key rung in the distance ladder, contributing to a precision measurement of the Hubble constant (H_0), independent of Cepheid variable stars. These TRGB distances are measured with HST F814W (i.e., I-band) observations where the luminosity of the TRGB has only a modest and well-characterized dependence on metallicity. In the NIR, the TRGB is up to 2 mag brighter offering profound observational gains. Simply put, JWST is capable of measuring TRGB distances out to ~50 Mpc over a 125x greater volume than HST, and reaching galaxies with diverse properties across all morphological types. The TRGB with JWST will become the primary distance indicator in the nearby universe. However, the luminosity of the TRGB in the NIR is expected to have a greater dependence on metallicity and possibly stellar age. Thus, for JWST to be used for TRGB distance work, it must be empirically calibrated and robustly tested. We propose observing 4 nearby galaxies that have existing HST ACS and WFC3 IR observations from a JWST preparatory program. We will calibrate the TRGB in the F090W, F150W, F277W, and F356W NIRCam filters and the F090W and F150W NIRISS filters in parallel. We will quantify the precision of TRGB distances obtained with simultaneously imaged F090W+F277W filters, which offers a ~50% increase in efficiency of JWST observations for distance work. A calibration in this first cycle of JWST will enable TRGB distances with JWST throughout the mission lifetime and charter a path to reduced uncertainties in the local measurement of H_0.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We target the stellar halos of 4 nearby galaxies with NIRCam with NIRISS in parallel. The prime and parallel fields both overlap with existing HST ACS and WFC3 IR data obtained in a JWST preparatory program, allowing for the identification of stars across both telescopes and multiple instruments. Our primary pointings with NIRCam provide optimal overlap with one of the HST fields. Orient constraints are made to ensure NIRISS in parallel overlaps with a second HST field. We have selected the F090W and F150W SW filters in NIRCam with simultaneous imaging in the F277W and F356W LW filters and the F090W and F150W filters for the parallel observations with NIRISS. We request a combination of shallow2 and shallow4 readout patterns, depending on the distance to each galaxy with 5 (6) groups per integration for NIRCam (NIRISS) to sample the ramps while mitigating against cosmic rays with 1 integration per exposure. We chose 3 and 4-pt-small-with-NIRISS subpixel dither patterns to reduce flat-fielding uncertainties; we do not intend to cover the chip gaps. From the APT, total data volume is <5 GB per visit, well below the total data volume limit of 28.2 GB in a 12 hour period. The data rates are not an issue using the shallow readout patterns.