---
id: 1640
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Andrea Banzatti"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 19.1
program_title: "The Infrared Water Spectrum as a Tracer of Pebble Delivery to Rocky Planets"
type: "GO"
---
# 1640 - The Infrared Water Spectrum as a Tracer of Pebble Delivery to Rocky Planets
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1640
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                                   | Observing Template                  | Science Target     |
| :-------------------------------------- | :---------------------------------- | :----------------- |
| GQ Lup MIRI MRS                         | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (8) GQ-LUP         |
| 04385 MIRI MRS                          | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (6) IRAS-04385     |
| 04385 MIRI MRS - Repeat of observation 6 | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (6) IRAS-04385     |
| GK Tau MIRI MRS                         | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) V-GK-TAU       |
| CI Tau MIRI MRS                         | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (5) V-CI-TAU       |
| RY Lup MIRI MRS                         | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (10) V-RY-LUP      |
| IQ Tau MIRI MRS                         | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) V-IQ-TAU       |
| HP Tau MIRI MRS                         | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) V-HP-TAU       |
| GO Tau MIRI MRS                         | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) V-GO-TAU       |

---

## ABSTRACT

The dynamics and accretion of pebbles in protoplanetary disks are currently proposed to be decisive in forming planetary systems and determining their architecture and composition. Pebbles are expected to drift efficiently as soon as they reach mm-cm sizes at orbital radii of ~100 au, therefore feeding the inner disk with planet-building material. Depending on a lower or higher mass-flux of pebbles that makes it into the inner 2-3 au, models propose that systems of terrestrial planets rather than super-Earths would form. ALMA images of disks around 1-3 Myr-old stars have revealed that a range of pebble drift efficiencies exists, with some disks retaining pebbles at 50-200 au in systems of rings. While ALMA observations easily reveal pebbles retained in the outer disk, they cannot inform on the pebble mass flux into the inner rocky-planet-forming disk region. In this program, we will use the infrared water spectrum as a tracer of the inward mass-flux of pebbles that drift into the inner ~3 au in disks, by measuring water columns and their relation to the radial distribution of disk pebbles. While a connection between inner disk water and outer dust disk radius has been found using blended Spitzer spectra, the increased resolution of JWST-MIRI will for the first time separate optically thin from thick emission lines, providing a dramatic improvement in water column density measurements. We will provide estimates of pebble mass-fluxes delivered to inner disks in a luminosity-controlled sample of representative dust disk evolution types, and forward model those into inner disk planetary systems for comparison to ~1-10 Earth-mass exoplanets.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This is a MIRI MRS program to obtain full spectral coverage between 4.9-28 micron in a sample of 10 protoplanetary disks: GK Tau, GO Tau, HP Tau, IQ Tau, CI Tau, IRAS 04385-2550, GM Aur, GQ Lup, DoAr 25, RY Lup. These disks sample the most essential matrix in dust disk evolution types (small/large disks, with/without an inner dust cavity). Spectral ranges and sensitivity have been optimized to detect a number of optically thin water emission lines that will provide a dramatic improvement in water column density measurements within ~3 au in these disks. Integration times are set to reach a S/N ~100 at ~27.5 micron, where some of the most spectrally-separated optically thin lines are. Given the essential disk sample and the high quality expected for the spectra, we allow immediate access to the data to support community efforts to obtain the highest S/N spectra by fringe correction and calibrate follow-up disk chemistry proposals as early as possible in the JWST lifetime.