---
id: 1644
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS  NIRSpec/IFU NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Catherine Dougados  Co-PI: Benoit Tabone"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "11.1"
program_title: "A Cornerstone Study of the Jet/Outflow Connexion: The Remarkable DG Tau B System"
type: "GO"
---
# 1644 - A Cornerstone Study of the Jet/Outflow Connexion: The Remarkable DG Tau B System
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1644
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                  | Observing Template                 | Science Target          |
| :--------------------- | :--------------------------------- | :---------------------- |
| DGTau-Background       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (5) MIRIBACKGROUND      |
| DGTau-MIRI1            | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) DG-TAU-B-MIRI1      |
| DGTau-MIRI2            | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) DG-TAU-B-MIRI2      |
| DGTau-NIRSpec1         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy          | (6) DG-TAU-B-NIRSPEC-1  |
| DGTau-NIRSpec2         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy          | (7) DG-TAU-B-NIRSPEC-2  |
| DGTau-NIRCAM           | NIRCam Imaging                    | (4) DG-TAU-B-NIRCAM     |

## ABSTRACT

We propose a cornerstone study of the jet/outflow connexion with JWST_in the remarkable DG tau B system. ALMA observations have revealed a narrow conical rotating CO outflow whose properties are challenging the traditional interpretation of these molecular outflows as swept up material. instead its properties appear compatible with a magnetic disk wind origin. These findings, if fully confirmed, have a crucial impact on proto-planetary disks. However, we are critically missing resolved spatial information on any warm wind component filling the gap between the hot (T=10^4 K) anf fast (V=100 km/s) jet and the cold (T=10 K) and slow (V=10 km/s) molecular outflow. We propose to map with MIRI-MRS, NIRspec-IFU & NIRCAM the inner 5" (=700 au) of the prototypical DG Tau B outflow in ro-vibrational and rotational H2, [Fe II], [S I] & [Ne II] emission lines. The proposed observations will establish for the first time a global view of the mass loss process in a young solar twin and discrimimate between the different models for the origin of outflowing CO cavities. These results will provide critical insights into the importance of mass loss and magnetic field in proto-planetary disk evolution

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to map the inner 5" region of the DG Tau B jet/outflow with MIRI-MRS & NIRSpec-IFU in the G140H and G235H grism. Two fields will be required with both NIRspec & MIRI. We aim for line brightness sensitivity in the range: SNR=10 at the peak of the line and per spaxel for of brightness of 2e-15 erg/s/cm2/arcsec2 = 10-4 erg/s/cm2/sr. Short exposures (ngroups=30) will be used with MIRI because of the strong central continuum source. In each case, a four point dithering for extended source will be used. A separated off field background exposure will be obtained for both MIRI and a leakcal exposure with NIRSpec-IFU. We will complement these observations with narrow band imaging with NIRCAM in the F164N & F212N narrow band filters to map the bright FeII 1.64 and H2 2.12 microns lines.