---
id: 1657
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU  MIRI/MRS  NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Yuichi Harikane  Co-PI: Ryan Sanders"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "23.7"
program_title: "Anchoring z>6 Galaxy Metallicities Using T_e and n_e Diagnostics Enabled by JWST and ALMA Spectroscopy"
type: "GO"
---
# 1657 - Anchoring z>6 Galaxy Metallicities Using T_e and n_e Diagnostics Enabled by JWST and ALMA Spectroscopy
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1657
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template            | Science Target   |
| :---- | :-------------------------- | :--------------- |
| J0218 | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (1) J0218-0519   |
| J0217 | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (2) J0217-0208   |
| J1211 | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (3) J1211-0118   |
| J0218 | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) J0218-0519   |
| J0218 | NIRCam Imaging              | (1) J0218-0519   |
| J0217 | NIRCam Imaging              | (2) J0217-0208   |
| J1211 | NIRCam Imaging              | (3) J1211-0118   |

## ABSTRACT

We propose deep NIRSpec and MIRI IFU spectroscopy targeting 3 galaxies at z=6.0-7.2 covered by ALMA [OIII]88um observations in order to derive gas-phase metallicities at z>6 using the reliable direct electron temperature method. Accurate gas-phase metallicities are crucial for understanding the formation and growth of early galaxies, but diagnostic calibrations to infer metallicity from strong-line ratios have not yet been established at high redshifts. Obtaining temperature-based metallicities of z>6 sources represents the most direct and robust solution to this problem. Although the direct method usually relies on temperature-sensitive auroral lines that are too faint to detect at z>6, we will accomplish this goal by combining measures of the temperature-sensitive far-infrared fine structure line [OIII]88um (from ALMA) with rest-frame optical lines (Ha, Hb, [OIII]4959,5007, and density-sensitive [OII]3726,3729 from JWST). Our program will deliver robust measures of the mass-metallicity relation to z~6-7 along with accompanying constraints on dynamical and gas masses, ionization parameter, and ionizing spectral shape. These constraints will allow us to understand the formation of luminous z~6 sources, the role of feedback in governing their growth, and their impact on cosmic reionization. Most significantly, direct-method metallicities derived from this program will serve as the first calibrating 'anchor' for statistical studies of metallicities and ionization parameters for galaxies in GTO/ERS and other samples, derived using the strong-line method. The combination will provide robust data for understanding early galaxy formation and the sources of cosmic reionization.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will conduct NIRSpec and MIRI IFU spectroscopy and NIRCam imaging for three galaxies: J1211-0118 (z = 6.029), J0217-0208 (z = 6.204), and J0218-0519 (z = 7.215).

For J1211-0118 and J0217-0208 at z=6.0-6.2, we will use NIRSpec G235H/F170LP for [OII]3726,3729 and G395H/F290LP for Hb, [OIII]4959,5007, and Ha.For J0218-0519 at z=7.2, we will use NIRSpec G395H/F290LP for [OII]3726,3729, Hb, and [OIII]4959, and MIRI Channel 1 Short (A) for Ha. Although the [OIII]5007 line of J0218-0519 falls in a detector gap, we can estimate the line flux from [OIII]4959 using the fixed flux ratio of [OIII]5007/[OIII]4959=2.98. We choose the high resolution NIRSpec gratings that provide R~2,700, sufficiently high to study kinematics (FWHM~100 km/s) and resolve the [OII] doublet. The NRSIRS2RAPID readout mode is used to better identify and remove cosmic rays, except the G235H/F170LP spectroscopy for J0217-0208, where we use NRSIRS2 to reduce the data volume.

We will conduct NIRCam F150W+F300M and F200W+F410M imaging for J1211-0118 and J0217-0208 at z=6.0-6.2, and F150W+F360M and F200W+F430M imaging for J0218-0519 at z=7.2, to estimate robust stellar masses and measure the inclinations required to correct the kinematic calculations. The Background Limited special requirement is used for NIRCam imaging, as the achieved S/N changes by ~10-20% between low and high background.