---
id: 1658
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS  MIRI/LRS  NIRCam/Imaging  MIRI/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Emmanuel Lellouch"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "23.4"
program_title: "Pluto's Climate System with JWST"
type: "GO"
---
# 1658 - Pluto's Climate System with JWST
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1658
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                                   | Observing Template                     | Science Target          |
| :-------------------------------------- | :------------------------------------- | :---------------------- |
| PLUTO MIRI MRS 340deg (APT 20deg)       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (1) PLUTO               |
| CHARON MIRI LRS 330deg (APT 30deg)      | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy       | (2) CHARON              |
| CHARON MIRI LRS Repeat                  | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy       | (1) PLUTO               |
| PLUTO MIRI IMAGING: 330deg (APT 30deg)  | MIRI Imaging                           | (1) PLUTO               |
| PLUTO MIRI IMAGING: 270deg (APT 90deg)  | MIRI Imaging                           | (1) PLUTO               |
| PLUTO MIRI IMAGING: 210deg (APT 150deg) | MIRI Imaging                           | (1) PLUTO               |
| PLUTO MIRI IMAGING: 150deg (APT 210deg) | MIRI Imaging                           | (1) PLUTO               |
| PLUTO MIRI IMAGING: 90deg (APT 270deg)  | MIRI Imaging                           | (1) PLUTO               |
| PLUTO MIRI IMAGING: 30deg (APT 330deg)  | MIRI Imaging                           | (1) PLUTO               |
| PLUTO NIRCAM: 330 deg (APT 30deg)       | NIRCam Imaging                         | (1) PLUTO               |
| PLUTO NIRCAM: 210 deg (APT 150 deg)     | NIRCam Imaging                         | (1) PLUTO               |
| PLUTO NIRCAM: 90deg (APT 270deg)        | NIRCam Imaging                         | (1) PLUTO               |
| PLUTO-MIRI-BACKGROUND-330               | MIRI Imaging                           | (3) PLUTO-BACKGROUND    |
| PLUTO-MIRI-BACKGROUND-270               | MIRI Imaging                           | (3) PLUTO-BACKGROUND    |
| PLUTO-MIRI-BACKGROUND-210               | MIRI Imaging                           | (3) PLUTO-BACKGROUND    |
| PLUTO-MIRI-BACKGROUND-150               | MIRI Imaging                           | (3) PLUTO-BACKGROUND    |
| PLUTO-MIRI-BACKGROUND-90                | MIRI Imaging                           | (3) PLUTO-BACKGROUND    |
| PLUTO-MIRI-BACKGROUND-30                | MIRI Imaging                           | (3) PLUTO-BACKGROUND    |

## ABSTRACT

The New Horizons 2015 encounter with the Pluto system unveiled a remarkably active world, with a highly variegated surface and a chemically-rich atmosphere with extensive haze. It raised new fundamental questions about Pluto's climate evolution, chemistry and energy balance of the atmosphere, and about the thermal and compositional properties of Pluto's and Charon's surfaces. In a highly complementary dataset to New Horizons, we will combine MIRI and NIRCam observations to address these topics. NIRCam filter imaging (3 visits, 4 SW filters) will map the albedo and methane ice distribution with resolution comparable to HST visible imaging, providing key tests for volatile transport models. MIRI imaging (6 visits, 4 filters) will yield separate thermal lightcurves of Pluto and Charon, determining the surface thermal and energetical properties and further constraining Pluto's distribution of terrains. These data will also provide a definite test of the scenario of haze control of Pluto's atmosphere thermal structure. A deep MIRI/MRS spectrum will give new insights on Pluto's atmosphere composition, including yet undetected species (e.g. C3H8, C4H2), which are expected from photochemical-microphysical models, with additional implications for the atmosphere radiative balance. MIRI/MRS will also reveal the 5-15 micron reflected spectrum of the dark/red units of Pluto, where bands due to hydrocarbon ices and irradiation products are expected; a similar study will be performed on Charon using MIRI/LRS, searching for non-H2O ice signatures. Observational results will be interpreted in the framework of self-consistent and validated atmospheric and climatic models.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

NOTE RE. PLUTO CENTRAL MERIDIAN LONGITUDES: APT vs. HORIZONS/JPL

APT APPEARS TO BE USING THE OLD CONVENTION FOR PLUTO'S POLE, SUCH THAT CML INCREASES WITH TIME. THE IAU UPDATED THE POLE DEFINITION SEVERAL YEARS AGO SUCH THAT PLUTO'S ROTATION OBEYS THE RIGHT-HAND RULE (CML DECREASES W/ TIME BECAUSE THE POLE IS BELOW THE ECLIPTIC).

OUR OBSERVING WINDOWS ARE NECESSARILY BASED ON THE APT CONVENTION, WHILE OUR SCIENCE JUSTIFICATION USES THE NEW (CORRECT) POLE DEFINITION. OBSERVATION LABELS INDICATE THE CORRECT LONGITUDES OF OUR OBSERVATIONS, AND INCLUDE THE APT-CONVENTION LONGITUDES FOR CLARITY.

We will use a combination of MIRI and NIRCAM observations to achieve our science goals, as summarized below. Altogether, the science time is 10.23 hr and the charged time 23.35 hr.

1) Name = PLUTO MIRI MRS 90deg. Instrument: MIRI MRS. Target = Pluto. Science time= 29976 sec. Time constraint: Pluto central meridian longitude (CML) between 75 and 105. Grouped (non-interruped) with observations 7 and 11
2) Name = CHARON MIRI LRS 330deg. Instrument:: MIRI LRS. Target = Charon (includes Pluto). Science time = 1112 sec. Time constraint: *Pluto* CML between 315 and 345. Grouped (non-interruped) with observations 3 and 9
3) Name = PLUTO MIRI IMAGING: 330deg. Instrument: MIRI-Imaging: Target=Pluto (includes Charon). Science time = 614 sec . Time constraint: Pluto CML between 315 and 345. Grouped (non-interruped) with observation 2 and 9
4) Name = PLUTO MIRI IMAGING: 270deg. Instrument: MIRI Imaging: Target=Pluto (includes Charon). Science time = 614 sec . Time constraint: Pluto CML between 255 and 285.
5) Name = PLUTO MIRI IMAGING: 210 deg. Instrument: MIRI Imaging: Target=Pluto (includes Charon). Science time = 614 sec . Time constraint: Pluto CML between 195 and 225. Grouped (non-interruped) with observation 10
6) Name = PLUTO MIRI IMAGING: 150deg. Instrument: MIRI Imaging: Target=Pluto (includes Charon). Science time = 614 sec . Time constraint: Pluto CML between 135 and 165.
7) Name = PLUTO MIRI IMAGING: 90deg. Instrument: MIRI Imaging: Target=Pluto (includes Charon). Science time = 614 sec . Time constraint: Pluto CML between 75 and 105. Grouped (non-interruped) with observations 1 and 11
8) Name = PLUTO MIRI IMAGING: 30deg. Instrument: MIRI Imaging: Target=Pluto (includes Charon). Science time = 614 sec . Time constraint: Pluto CML between 15 and 45.
9) Name = PLUTO NIRCAM: 330 deg. Instrument: NIRCAm: Target=Pluto (includes Charon). Science time = 688 sec . Time constraint: Pluto CML between 315 and 345. Grouped (non-interruped) with observation 2 and 3
10) Name = PLUTO NIRCAM: 210 deg. Instrument: NIRCAm: Target=Pluto (includes Charon). Science time = 688 sec . Time constraint: Pluto CML between 195 and 225. Grouped (non-interruped) with observation 5
11) Name = PLUTO NIRCAM: 90 deg. Instrument: NIRCAm: Target=Pluto (includes Charon). Science time = 688 sec . Time constraint: Pluto CML between 75 and 105. Grouped (non-interruped) with observation 1 and 7.

Finally, we request that all of our observations be executed within a 6.4 day period, for reasons explained in the Technical case.