---
id: 1666
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/TSO"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Poshak Gandhi  Co-PIs: Thomas Maccarone and Aarran Shaw"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "22.9"
program_title: "Validating JWST's In-orbit Clock Accuracy"
type: "GO,  Calibration"
---
# 1666 - Validating JWST's In-orbit Clock Accuracy
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1666
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label              | Observing Template  | Science Target                         |
| :----------------- | :------------------ | :------------------------------------- |
| Time Series Mode   | NIRCam Time Series  | (1) NAME-ZTF-J153932.16+502738.8       |
| Time Series Mode   | NIRCam Time Series  | (1) NAME-ZTF-J153932.16+502738.8       |

---

## ABSTRACT

**ABSTRACT**
JWST, despite not being designed for observing high time-resolution phenomena, can be an unparalleled tool for such studies, opening wide the sub-second infrared timescale regime, if timing systematics can be controlled. Rapid time-domain studies, such as lag measurements in accreting sources and Solar System occultations, require both precise inter-frame timing and knowing when a time series begins to an absolute accuracy significantly below 0.5 s.

With this calibration proposal, we will support rapid time-domain studies, by measuring the mission clock calibration and drift between commanded resets from the ground (down to an ~40 ms level). Even if the clock only reaches its ground-based accuracy requirement of 0.5 s, we will deliver a technique that provides a factor of ~5 improvement with a minimal calibration overhead. The science-deliverables will be useful for a broad cross-section of the time-domain community.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

**OBSERVING DESCRIPTION**
**Aim**
===
Time-series NIRCAM observation of an eclipsing double white dwarf binary with a well-measured ephemeris. The aim is to use this as a timing calibrator to validate the clock accuracy down to ~40 ms, a factor of ~13 better than the baseline clock requirement of ~0.5 s over 12 hours. Our proposed observations will provide a low-overhead technique to calibrate down to ~100 ms (5x better than baseline requirement) for community users.

**Strategy**
===
12 hours (charged time) contiguous time series F070 imaging of the target ZTF J1539 in SUB160P. Effective integration time is ~11 s.

We propose to observe contiguously between ground contact clock resets. This will enable searches for clock drifts.

We have been in contact with the mission team at STScI (K. Stevenson, J. Stansberry), and in addition with the Time Series Observations Group (N. Nikolov) through the Helpdesk, checking that there is no conflict with other planned in-orbit calibrations (see INC0160577). We will be happy to work with the mission and instrument teams to refine the observing strategy herein, if desired.