---
id: 1668
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Coronagraphy"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Sebastian Marino"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 11.1
program_title: "Searching for Low Mass Planets in Debris Disk Gaps"
type: "GO"
---
# 1668 - Searching for Low Mass Planets in Debris Disk Gaps
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1668
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label             | Observing Template        | Science Target      |
| :---------------- | :------------------------ | :------------------ |
| BKG-HD107146      | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging | (7) BKG-HD107146    |
| HD107146-roll1    | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging | (1) HD107146        |
| HD107146-roll2    | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging | (1) HD107146        |
| PSF-HD107146      | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging | (4) PSF-HD107146    |
| BKG-PSF-HD107146  | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging | (8) BKG-PSF-HD107146|
| BKG-HD92945       | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging | (9) BKG-HD92945     |
| HD92945-roll1     | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging | (2) HD92945         |
| HD92945-roll2     | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging | (2) HD92945         |
| PSF-92945         | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging | (5) PSF-HD92945     |
| BKG-PSF-HD92945   | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging | (10) BKG-PSF-HD92945|
| BKG-HD206893      | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging | (11) BKG-HD206893   |
| HD206893-roll1    | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging | (3) HD206893        |
| HD206893-roll2    | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging | (3) HD206893        |
| PSF-HD206893      | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging | (6) PSF-HD206893    |
| BKG-PSF-HD206893  | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging | (12) BKG-PSF-HD206893|

---

## ABSTRACT

Whilst exoplanet campaigns have discovered thousands of exoplanets at small radii, only rare planets more massive than Jupiter have been detectable at distances greater than 10 au. Nevertheless, these outer regions have instead been explored indirectly through observations of debris disks at tens of au. Over the last decades these observations have indicated the presence of planets shaping their structures, e.g. forcing disk eccentricities or carving gaps in wide disks, but the predicted planets were rarely within the detectable mass range. It is only now with JWST that we can directly detect these types of planets. We propose to use MIRI 15um coronagraphy to detect the planets carving the gaps in three wide belts discovered with ALMA: HD107146, HD92945 and HD206893. We predict the mass of these planets to be in the range 0.2-2 Mjup based on dynamical arguments of planet-disk interactions, and our proposed observations will be able to firmly detect their presence. These putative planets could become the smallest discovered beyond 10 au in any exoplanetary system. Moreover, when combined with the disc structure information, we will be able to constrain both the orbits and dynamical history of these systems. This type of systems with gapped debris disks carved by planets could be the tip of the iceberg of a larger population that ALMA is starting to reveal. Finally, focusing on debris disk systems has the advantage that we know the orientation of these systems (face-on for the proposed targets), they have a higher occurrence rate of cold directly imaged giant planets, and their disks are optically thin and thus any planet would suffer negligible extinction.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will search for planets using MIRI coronagraphic imaging at 15um in 3 systems with debris disks that show evidence of a planet carving a gap. These are HD107146, HD92945 and HD206893.

The observations will be done using the F1550C filter and using two roll angles to perform angular differential imaging. This also introduces diversity between instrument artifacts and any exoplanet signal. The two roll observations will be followed by a reference star observation to use for reference PSF differential imaging. To account for TA errors, we will perform a 9-point small grid dither on our reference star to obtain a library of reference images that sample the PSF diversity close to the center of the coronagraph.

We will perform 1h integration for the three targets (30min per roll) and shorter integrations for our reference star that will reach the same S/N per dither position.