---
id: 1670
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Thomas Shimizu"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "34"
program_title: "Closing in on the Launching Sites of AGN Outflows"
type: "GO"
---
# 1670 - Closing in on the Launching Sites of AGN Outflows
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1670
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                      | Observing Template              | Science Target      |
| :------------------------- | :------------------------------ | :------------------ |
| NGC5506 background         | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (7) NGC5506-BKG     |
| NGC5506-MRS                | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) NGC5506         |
| ESO137-MRS                 | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) ESO137-G034     |
| ESO137-background          | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (8) ESO137-G034-BKG |
| NGC5728-MRS                | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) NGC5728         |
| NGC5728-background         | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (10) NGC5728-BKG    |
| NGC3081-background         | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (11) NGC3081-BKG    |
| NGC3081-MRS                | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) NGC3081         |
| NGC7172-background         | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (9) NGC7172-BKG     |
| NGC7172-MRS                | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (5) NGC7172         |
| MCG05-MRS                  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (6) MCG-05-23-016   |
| MCG05-background           | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (12) MCG-05-23-016-BKG |

---

## ABSTRACT

Supermassive black holes, and the outflows they drive, are an established part of our understanding of galaxy evolution. Indeed, cosmological models rely on outflows to reproduce the observed scaling relations. But the enormous range of outflow rates that are measured for AGN of the same luminosity, highlights a gaping hole in our understanding of how outflows are launched and driven. Our sample of AGN at similar distances and with similar luminosities, but with outflow rates differing by two orders of magnitude, provides the ideal opportunity to fill this gap. We will exploit the rich suite of diagnostics at 5-29um with MIRI MRS integral field spectroscopy and the sensitivity and resolution of JWST. Our analysis is built on the three cornerstones of molecular gas, ionized gas, and dust - observed together at the same resolution over the same scales, enabling us to build a holistic view of the central few hundred parsecs. From the spatially resolved kinematics we will construct geometrical models that provide a direct view of how gas is fed in from the circumnuclear disk through the obscuring torus and driven out in the outflow. We will associate the PAHs and the hot dust continuum to each of these components to test new models of the torus. And from the numerous line ratios, we will quantify the role of AGN versus stellar photoionization on the different structures. Piecing this together will enable us to highlight the physical processes that determine the prominence of the observed outflow, leading to a major advance in our understanding of the key mechanisms at the root of AGN fuelling and feedback.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The aim of the observations is to use the MIRI MRS to obtain, for a small sample of AGN, spatially resolved distributions and kinematics of various key emission lines, as well as maps of the PAHS and dust. The target AGN have been chosen to be of similar luminosity and distance, but to cover a wide range of measured outflow rate (reflecting the range of observed line profiles). The observations therefore will be either single pointings or small mosaics defined from existing data, designed to cover the circumnuclear disk and the outflow out to scales of at most few hundred parsecs. The centre of the region of interest for each pointing/mosaic is the bright point source, which indicates the location of the AGN, All 3 wavelength settings of MRS will be used, because the emission lines of interest (which include molecular gas, and both low and high excitation ionized gas) are spread throughout the full MIRI bandpass. All of these are needed in order to perform not just kinematic modelling, but also to model the excitation of the molecular and ionized gas. Typically, a 4-point dither pattern is used. But for 1 object (NGC5506), the position angle scheduling constraints mean that it is more effective to define an 8-point linear mosiac along a specific direction, rather than have 2 dithered pointings. The AGN are relatively luminous, and mid-infrared imaging shows that the central point source can be very bright. Because of this, and based on the known maxmimum central mid-infrared flux density, the detector set-up for each target has been defined to avoid saturation by limiting the number of groups in an integration. And the full intgeration times have been set in order to detect faint extended line emission, as need for the modelling. Each target can be observed in a single visit. The necessary separate background observations have been set up with the same detector read-out strategy, and with a 2-point dither in order to ensure that the background frames are optimal. We will obtain simultaneous imaging in 3 filters. During the MRS background exposures, the SUB256 imager field (this ensures we do not saturate the bright nucleus) is centered on the AGN, allowing us to map the continuum and silicate absorption out to larger scales than covered by the MRS.