---
id: 1671
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Michael Maseda"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "23.9"
program_title: "Emission Line Galaxies Beyond the Limits of the Hubble UDF: Physical Conditions in Ultra-faint Star Forming Galaxies"
type: "GO"
---
# 1671 - Emission Line Galaxies Beyond the Limits of the Hubble UDF: Physical Conditions in Ultra-faint Star Forming Galaxies
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1671
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label              | Observing Template            | Science Target          |
| :----------------- | :---------------------------- | :---------------------- |
| MPT custom         | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (2) MUSE-DR2-MXDF-V2 |

---

## ABSTRACT

In the last 15 years, the Hubble Space Telescope has spent more than four weeks worth of exposure time on a single 11 sq. arcminute region of the night sky: the Hubble Ultra Deep Field (UDF). However, deep VLT/MUSE optical integral field spectroscopy has recently revealed an abundant population of ultra-faint galaxies without counterparts in the HST imaging. These z=2.9-6.7 galaxies are detectable due to their strong Lyman-alpha emission, with equivalent widths that imply extremely young ages, small stellar masses, and a very low amount of metal enrichment. This unprecedented sample represents our best chance at studying galaxies in the earliest phases of formation, even with future JWST imaging surveys. We propose to use JWST/NIRSpec's MSA to follow-up a subset of 45-55 of these 171 galaxies at 1.7-5.1 microns in order to target strong optical emission lines: Halpha, [OIII], Hbeta, [NeIII], and [OII]. These observations will reveal exactly how metal-poor these galaxies are, will put direct constraints on stellar population models for young ages and low-metallicities, and, when combined with exquisite MUSE restframe-UV data, will reveal for the first time the physical conditions inside the lowest-mass star-forming galaxies at high redshift. The large wavelength coverage and sensitivity of NIRSpec are crucial for obtaining the information required to fully characterize these ultra-faint Lyman-alpha emitters.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will use NIRSpec's MSA to target faint, high-equivalent width Lyman-alpha emitters in the UDF (03 32 38, -27 47 0). These targets have been selected from MUSE integral field spectroscopy to be promising candidates for extremely young and metal-poor stellar populations at 2.9 < z < 6.7. With G235M/F170LP and G395M/F290LP data, we will measure optical emission lines like Halpha, Hbeta, [OIII], and [OII] for all sources. These emission lines will be used to determine the systemic redshifts of the galaxies as well as their gas-phase metallicities.

In order to maximize multiplexing, we are allowing for some spectral overlap (minimal separation of 130 shutters between targets) as we are in a detector noise-limited regime. Further, we are not planning to dither as (1) this would minimize the number of targets receiving the full integration time, which is crucial for our science and (2) we already have some redshift information for each target so we can ensure no emission lines fall in the detector gap. 3 nods are performed for each grating setup. Each grating setup has 3 integrations of 100 groups in NRSIRS2RAPID (1473s exposures). R1000 Band II (III) has 3 (2) sequences at each position to build up signal-to-noise.

A target catalog is included in this APT file. This includes all of our scientific targets (from MUSE) as well as all sources from the GOODS-S catalog of Skelton et al. (2014) which will be used for target acquisition.