---
id: 1676
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Catherine Espaillat"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 7.7
program_title: "EUV vs. X-ray Photoevaporation of Protoplanetary Disks"
type: "GO"
---
# 1676 - EUV vs. X-ray Photoevaporation of Protoplanetary Disks
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1676
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label      | Observing Template                  | Science Target      |
| :--------- | :---------------------------------- | :------------------ |
| 1          | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) UX-TAU-A        |
| 2          | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (7) UX-TAU-A-BG     |
| 3          | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) RXJ1615.3       |
| 4          | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (8) RXJ1615.3-BG    |
| 5          | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (5) GM-AUR          |
| 6          | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (11) GM-AUR-BG      |
| 7          | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (6) SZ-CHA          |
| 8          | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (12) SZ-CHA-BG      |

## ABSTRACT

Theoretical simulations suggest that the protoplanetary disk lifetime is dictated by the rate at which gas is eroded by photoevaporative winds created by high-energy radiation from the central star. However, photoevaporation models predict significantly different mass loss rates depending on whether the photoevaporation is driven by the EUV or X-ray radiation field. These different mass loss rates lead to different timescales for disk clearing and hence the timescale by which giant planets must form. Here we propose to observe the [Ne II] 12.8 micron and [Ne III] 15.5 micron fine structure emission lines and measure the [Ne III]-to-[Ne II] line ratio, which has been put forward as a diagnostic of the high-energy radiation field. Specifically, the ratio of these Neon lines can distinguish between EUV vs. X-ray driven photoevaporation. We propose to use MIRI to observe the Neon lines given that JWST is the only facility that can observe the [Ne III] 15.5 micron line. These observations will characterize the high-energy radiation field and thus the efficiency of photoevaporation, providing constraints on the disk clearing timescale and the planet formation timescale in protoplanetary disks.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will observe 4 targets with MIRI MRS in all channels for a total of 7.66 hrs, including overheads. We used existing IRS spectra to do our calculations in the ETC for all estimates reported below. We employ the same observation scheme for each of the 4 targets. Given the pointing accuracy of JWST (~0.1''), we do not require target acquisition; since our targets are point sources they will be reasonably well-centered within the FOV. We do not expect to resolve the emission from our targets, so we choose the default 4-point dither optimized for point sources and all wavelengths. We will use FAST readout for all spectral observations. The minimum recommended groups/integration for data reduction by the MIRI Handbook is 10. Using 10 groups/integration and 1 integration per exposure (1 total exposure), we obtain S/N for UX Tau A, RXJ1615.3, GM Aur, and SZ Cha of 50-120, 15-80, 20-120, 20-100, respectively. This will be sufficient to measure the line emission. For each observation, we also request a background observation taken with the same set up. To choose the background, we inspected DSS, 2MASS, and WISE images to select a nearby off-source area with no bright objects.