---
id: 1678
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/FS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Matthew Ashby"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "12.7"
program_title: "Calibrating Billions of SPHEREx Spectra from 2.4 to 5.0 um"
type: "GO"
---
# 1678 - Calibrating Billions of SPHEREx Spectra from 2.4 to 5.0 um
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1678
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                       | Observing Template       | Science Target |
| :-------------------------- | :----------------------- | :------------- |
| Spectrophotometry of 1757132 | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (2) 1757132    |
| 5                           |                          |                |
| Spectrophotometry of 1812095 | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (3) 1812095    |
| 6                           |                          |                |
| Spectrophotometry of 1802271 | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (6) 1802271    |
| 7                           |                          |                |
| Spectrophotometry of 1805292 | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (5) 1805292    |
| 8                           |                          |                |

## ABSTRACT

NASA's upcoming SPHEREx mission will carry out an all-sky 0.75 to 5.0 um spectroscopic survey at 6" resolution, yielding literally billions of infrared spectra of galaxies, stars, and solar system objects. This proposal seeks NIRSPEC FS spectra of four relatively bright spectrophotometric standards, to significantly reduce systematic uncertainties in the three long-wavelength SPHEREx spectral Bands from 2.4 to 5.0 um, and increase the science return from the mission. Approved JWST Cycle 1 calibration spectra are insufficient for this purpose. Our proposed NIRSPEC FS spectrophotometry will offer two key benefits. First, by cross-calibrating SPHEREx and JWST directly using standards in a brightness regime that both facilities can observe at high SNR, our proposed observations will tie the NIRSPEC calibration to billions of sources of all kinds covering the entire sky. Second, the resulting spectrophotometric calibration will enable model-free interpretations of narrow emission and absorption features in long-wavelength SPHEREx ice spectra -- features that are fundamental to its scientific mission -- greatly reducing systematic uncertainties and putting the community's understanding of the Milky Way's interstellar ice content on a firmer footing. Only JWST can carry out the observations proposed here.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This proposal implements NIRSPEC FS observations of four spectrophotometric standards from the CALSPEC database. The observations are to be carried out in a manner modeled as closely as possible on approved Cycle 1 Calibration proposal 1536 (PI K. Gordon; the A-star calibration program) of A star 1743045, so as to enable identical reductions of both datasets. The goal is to calibrate the three longest-wavelength SPHEREx spectral Bands, from 2.4 to 5.0 microns, in a manner that is as free from systematic effects as possible. Thus, the proposed observations will tightly tie the NIRSPEC spectral calibration to all the literally billions of celestial sources of all types to be surveyed by the upcoming SPHEREX mission over the entire infrared sky.