---
id: 1685
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Adam Riess"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "24.1"
program_title: "Uncrowding the Cepheids for an Improved Determination of the Hubble Constant"
type: "GO"
---
# 1685 - Uncrowding the Cepheids for an Improved Determination of the Hubble Constant
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1685
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label      | Observing Template | Science Target    |
| :--------- | :----------------- | :---------------- |
| N1559 1    | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) N1559         |
| N1559 2    | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) N1559         |
| N1448 1    | NIRCam Imaging     | (8) NGC-1448      |
| N1448 2    | NIRCam Imaging     | (8) NGC-1448      |
| N4258 1    | NIRCam Imaging     | (3) N4258         |
| N4258 2    | NIRCam Imaging     | (3) N4258         |
| N5468 1    | NIRCam Imaging     | (4) N5468         |
| N5468 2    | NIRCam Imaging     | (4) N5468         |
| N5584 1    | NIRCam Imaging     | (5) N5584         |
| N5584 2    | NIRCam Imaging     | (5) N5584         |
| N5643 1    | NIRCam Imaging     | (6) N5643         |
| N5643 2    | NIRCam Imaging     | (6) N5643         |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose to scrutinize the puzzling tension in measurements of the Hubble constant (H0) by un-crowding observations of extragalactic Cepheids used to calibrate Type Ia supernovae (SNe Ia). The current 4-6 sigma tension between predictions of H0 based on the Early Universe (e.g., CMB+LCDM) and direct measurements from the Late Universe is one of the outstanding problems in cosmology, and Cepheid-based methods provide the strongest evidence of the tension. The unparalleled IR resolution of JWST will largely resolve the stellar backgrounds of Cepheids, whose fluctuations dominate the scatter of Period-Luminosity relations, and reduce the associated noise by nearly an order of magnitude. We propose observations of over 1500 known Cepheids in three filters and two epochs in five galaxies hosting 7 SNe Ia and in NGC 4258. The latter has a maser-based 1.5% geometric distance that will anchor a 2% measurement of H0 independent of HST and without significant background noise. These same observations will further develop two other independent distance indicators useful to calibrate SNe Ia and measure H0: the infrared TRGB and Oxygen-rich Miras. This will provide a multi-pronged approach to unravel differences between methods connecting both ends of the distance ladder and determine if the H0 tension is a robust feature of the Universe. The proposed observations are crucial to un-crowd Cepheid observations and address the only remaining systematic difference between the observations of these variables in SN Ia hosts and in the Milky Way, yielding a test of the tension beyond reproach and clearing the path for a direct 1% measurement of H0.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose observations of over 1500 known Cepheids in three filters and two epochs in five galaxies hosting 7 SNe Ia and in NGC 4258. The latter has a maser-based 1.5% geometric distance that will anchor a 2% measurement of H0 independent of HST and without significant background noise.