---
id: 1706
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Brunella Nisini"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "23.1"
program_title: "PROJECT-J: PROtostellar JEt's Cradle Tested with JWST"
type: "GO"
---
# 1706 - PROJECT-J: PROtostellar JEt's Cradle Tested with JWST
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1706
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label             | Observing Template                       | Science Target          |
| :---------------- | :--------------------------------------- | :---------------------- |
| MIRI IFU          | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy      | (1) HH46IRS-MIRI        |
| MIRI background   | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy      | (2) BACKGROUND          |
| NIRSpec IFU       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy                 | (3) HH46IRS-NIRSPEC     |
| NIRSpec IFU       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy                 | (3) HH46IRS-NIRSPEC     |

## ABSTRACT

Jets are intimately related to the process of star formation, representing the most prominent observational phenomenon during the early protostellar stage. However, little is known about their powering mechanism at the time of their formation, i.e. in embedded (Class0/I) sources, mostly due to the lack of sensitivity and angular resolution at IR wavelengths. We propose here to obtain spectral maps with MIRI and NIRSpec of the inner region of the HH46 IRS protostellar system, a well-studied, prototypical example of a jet surrounded by a cavity excavated by a wide-angle flow. With these observations, we will probe the deeply embedded HH46 outflow engine with the same accuracy as has been achieved with HST in evolved T Tauri jets. A variety of atomic and molecular lines will be detected in the covered spectral range. They will be used to provide a full characterisation of the innermost jet structure and connect it to the wide angle flow impinging on the cavity walls. These observations will also yield insight into the other components of the system, i.e. the proto-star itself and its accretion disk, providing, for the first time, a full picture of the star-disk interaction region well before planetary systems are formed.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to perform, with MIRI-MRS and NIRSpec in IFU mode, a mosaic around the HH46 IRS protostar aimed at covering the central object, its collimated jet and wide angle wind, and the outflow escavated cavity. The main objective of these observations will be to provide high quality, continuum subtracted images of the protostellar jet and the associated cavity.

We plan to use MIRI-MRS in the 4-channels and 3 wavelength settings, and NIRSpec G235H/F170LP and G395/F290LP in order to obtain a full wavelength coverage from 2 to 28.3 micron. The spectral resolution will be in the range 1500-3500 (i.e. 85-200 km/s).

The integration time was set in order to detect lines of about 2x10^{-15} erg/s/cm2/pixel with a_S/N > 10, according to the JWST ETC, v. 1.5.2 . Such a limit has been defined on the basis of the expected brightness of key diagnostic lines located at different wavelengths across the observed spectral range, such as the [FeII] and [FeIII] lines, predicted with our simulated spectrum of the jet emission. This sensitivity limit will in turn allow us to reach a S/N > 200 on the source continuum with NIRSpec, to detect weak features from the stellar photosphere.

With MIRI, the requested sensitivity is obtained with 4 integrations of 20 groups each. The maximum number of groups that avoids saturation of the central source has been chosen. The FAST readout pattern is selected to provide enough groups per integration (>10) for an optimised pipeline calibration. We also require a separate background exposure on a blank field for an optimal background subtraction. We will perform a MIRI 4x2 map oriented along the outflow adopting a 2-point dither optimised for extended sources and using a 10% of overlap.

For NIRSpec, the requested sensitivity limit will be obtained with 3 integrations of 15 groups in a 4-POINT-DITHER pattern. We will use the NRSIRS2RAPID readout mode to obtain lower readout noise. To correct for the MSA flux leakage problem, we also require a leakage correction exposure for each of the three gratings. For the map, we require a 2x2 mosaic with 10% overlap.

In total, the required science time is 12.1 hrs, while the total charged time is 23.3 hrs.