---
id: 1714
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging  MIRI/MRS  NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Tea Temim"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "22.6"
program_title: "The Origin of the Crab Nebula"
type: "GO"
---
# 1714 - The Origin of the Crab Nebula
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1714
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                 | Observing Template                  | Science Target           |
| :-------------------- | :---------------------------------- | :----------------------- |
| MIRI Imaging          | MIRI Imaging                        | (1) CRAB-NEBULA          |
| MIRI Imaging          | MIRI Imaging                        | (4) CRAB-NEBULA-BKG      |
| MIRI MRS Bkg          | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) CRAB-NEBULA-BKG      |
| MIRI MRS Filament 1   | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) CRAB-NEBULA-FIL 1    |
| MIRI MRS Filament 2   | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) CRAB-NEBULA-FIL2     |
| NIRCam Imaging        | NIRCam Imaging                      | (5) CRAB-NEBULA-NIRCAM   |

## ABSTRACT

We propose NIRCam and MIRI imaging and MIRI MRS spectroscopy of the iconic Crab Nebula in order to test models of the progenitor and explosion mechanism by mapping the dust distribution, imaging the iron emission, measuring Ni/Fe ratios, and searching for dust compositional variations. The imaging requested will permit us to separate the bright line and synchrotron emission from dust emission and produce the first complete mapping of the dust distribution in the Crab Nebula. The [Fe II] emission will be used to study the spatial distribution of Fe in the remnant and derive its total mass. The MIRI MRS spectra will be used to measure the Ni/Fe ratios across the filaments and determine the dust composition at two positions that may have different ejecta and swept-up circumstellar contributions. These observational measurements can elucidate differences in predictions for the two competing explosion mechanisms for the Crab's progenitor (electron capture vs. Fe-core collapse) and determine whether a dense circumstellar medium, possibly distributed in a disk around the progenitor, has been important in shaping the Crab Nebula as it is observed today.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We are obtaining MIRI and NIRCam mosaics of the Crab Nebula supernova remnant, as well as two pointings with MIRI MRS centered on two different ejecta filaments. The NIRCam mosaics are being carried out using the F160M and F480M filters and the MIRI mosaics using the F560W, F1800W, and F2100W filters. The pointings for the MRS were refined using HST imaging of the Crab Nebula. For the imaging mosaics, we do not require a dedicated backgound since there are source-free regions available in the mosaics for local background estimates. For MRS, we are obtaining a dedicated background in an adjacent field of view. Exposure times were all verified in the ETC. We have a special requirement in place to group the MIRI source and background observations as a non-interruptible sequence.