---
id: 1717
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Vivian U"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "27.6"
program_title: "Feedback around Supermassive Black Holes in Dusty Nuclei"
type: "GO"
---
# 1717 - Feedback around Supermassive Black Holes in Dusty Nuclei
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1717
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                  | Observing Template                  | Science Target             |
|------------------------|-------------------------------------|----------------------------|
| Mrk 273                | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) MRK273                 |
| Mrk 273 bg             | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) MRK273-BG              |
| Mrk 273                | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) MRK273                 |
| Mrk 273 bg             | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) MRK273-BG              |
| vv 340a                | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (7) VV340A                 |
| vv 340a bg             | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (8) VV340A-BG              |
| UGC 5101               | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (9) UGC05101               |
| UGC 5101 bg            | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (10) UGC05101-BG           |
| iii zw 035             | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) IIIZW035               |
| iii zw 035 bg          | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) IIIZW035-BG            |
| IRAS F01364-1042       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (5) IRASF01364-1042        |
| IRAS F01364-1042 bg    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (6) IRASF01364-1042-BG     |
| IRAS F17207-0014       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (11) IRASF17207-0014       |
| IRAS F17207-0014 bg    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (12) IRASF17207-0014-BG    |

---

## ABSTRACT

When galactic outflows are triggered, what is the impact of feedback on the interstellar medium at the launch site? How much energy is transported into the circumnuclear regions and subsequently affect the dust geometry and metal distribution? What drives these winds and how do they depend on intrinsic AGN properties or nuclear star formation rates? Addressing these pressing questions will have a profound impact on our understanding of the role of feedback in galaxy evolution, and can only be answered observationally using high spatial- and spectral-resolution infrared instruments capable of peering through heavy dust screens into galactic nuclei where powerful outflows are launched -- finally made available with JWST.

Capitalizing on the unparalleled diagnostic capability MIRI exhibits over the full 5-28 micron range, our proposed MRS observations of 7 nearby luminous infrared galaxies known to host prominent shocked molecular outflows will provide a holistic view of the molecular gas, dust, AGN, star formation, and metallicity in the central 4 kpc of ongoing galaxy mergers at the scales of 30-90 pc. We will determine the heating mechanisms for and gauge energetics of the outflows, correlate their spatial properties with AGN strength, and map their influence on metal distribution and star formation in different environments spanning a range of bolometric AGN fraction, infrared luminosities, and merger class. The 4x better spectral resolution of MRS over Spitzer IRS carries discovery potential in mapping the ionization state of the outflows. Proprietary data rights are waived to enhance the data's legacy value and to facilitate Cycle 2 proposals for the community.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose MIRI MRS observations for 7 sources in our sample of (U)LIRGs. Two of these sources will be observed as part of a GTO (IRAS F17207-0014; ID 1204, PI Rieke; covering only the short (A) sub-band within MRS) or an ERS (NGC 7469; ID 1328, PI Armus;covering all MIRI modes with sufficient exposure depth for our science goals) program, so we are proposing full 528m MIRI MRS observations for the remaining targets. We will fully utilize the wavelength range of four MRS channels for the suite of diagnostic lines accessible within 5-28m.

We will adopt the 4-point dither pattern optimized for an extended source for better sampling of the PSF with relatively uniform coverage. Since our targets span the FOV, we request an off-target observation with a 2-point dither pattern to reduce overheads while providing proper background subtraction for each source. The Background pointing and the Science observation are linked in an uninterruptible sequence for this purpose. Simultaneous MIRI imaging of another part of the host galaxy will be obtained in F560W, F770W, and F1500W bands, useful for improving astrometry and facilitating other ancillary science goals (i.e. mapping PAH features at F770W and dust temperature distribution using F560W and F1500W).