---
id: 1726
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Mikako Matsuura  Co-PIs: Richard Arendt, Eli Dwek, Claes Fransson, and Josefin Larsson"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "24.3"
program_title: "Shocks and Expanding Ejecta in Supernova 1987A"
type: "GO"
---
# 1726 - Shocks and Expanding Ejecta in Supernova 1987A
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1726
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label      | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :--------- | :----------------- | :------------- |
| First PA   | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) SN-1987A   |

---

## ABSTRACT

Supernovae (SNe) play crucial roles in the chemical and dynamical evolution of galaxies; they are sources of kinetic energy and elements, and provide and destroy dust. With JWST, these fundamental questions for SNe will be tackled: How do core collapse SNe explode? How do the SN blast waves impact the ambient gas and destroy dust?

We propose to obtain high-sensitivity and high angular-resolution NIRCam images of SN 1987A, which at a distance of 50 kpc is the nearest SN explosion detected in the last 400 years. Since the explosion, the fastest part of the blast wave has overtaken the circumstellar ring, which consists of material expelled from the progenitor star when it was in a red-supergiant phase about 20,000 years ago. Deep NIRCam images, including with the [Fe II] 1.64um filter, can identify for the first time the location of the current shocked region beyond SN 1987A's ring.

The blast wave and reverse shocks shatter and sputter dust grains into smaller fragments and collisionally heat them to high temperatures. NIRCam will be the able to spatially resolve hot dust and pinpoint the hot dust locations with respect to [Fe II]-traced shocks. Shock models including dust destruction will be used to evaluate the efficiency of the real time dust destruction by the SN blast wave.

H2 images obtained with NIRCam can resolve both the distribution and excitation of molecular hydrogen in the inner ejecta. They can trace the posited mixing of the hydrogen envelope deep into the ejecta at the time of SN explosion, thereby constraining the SN explosion model, which predicts mixing efficiencies that depend on the explosion energy.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will observe SN 1987A, the nearest SN explosion detected in 400 years, with NIRCam.
The observing program will obtain a deep [Fe II] image to detect current on-going shocks within SN 1987A, and high-resolution and high-sensitivity continuum images to identify the emission from hot dust that is undergoing collisional heating and destruction. We will also map ejecta in H2 in order to investigate the mixing of gas that happened soon after the SN explosion.

The other filters used for the program are Br alpha and continuum for [Fe II] and H2. Br alpha will be used to compare the location with shocked [Fe II]
The SUB 400 subarray will be used to cover the entire SN 1987A system, including the outer rings. The current ongoing shocks are located between the equatorial ring and the outer rings, so that covering the entire region is important.