---
id: 1729
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Thomas Mikal-Evans  Co-PI: Tiffany Kataria"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 44.7
program_title: "A NIRSpec Phase Curve for the Ultrahot Jupiter WASP-121b"
type: "GO"
---
# 1729 - A NIRSpec Phase Curve for the Ultrahot Jupiter WASP-121b
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1729
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label        | Observing Template              | Science Target |
| :----------- | :------------------------------ | :------------- |
| Phase Curve  | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) WASP-121   |

---

## ABSTRACT

JWST observations of hot Jupiters promise to be spectacular. We propose a 3-5 micron NIRSpec phase curve for one of the most outstanding such targets: WASP-121b. When our NIRSpec phase curve is combined with a NIRISS GTO phase curve, it will be the richest dataset yet acquired for an exoplanet atmosphere. For the first time, we will measure an exoplanet spectrum across the full 0.8-5 micron wavelength range at all 360 degrees of circumplanetary viewing angles. This will unlock a wealth of detail on the 3D atmospheric physics and chemistry, unattainable by isolated transits and eclipses. We will track how H2O and CO abundances vary with longitude, robustly determining the atmosphere's bulk C/O ratio and tightly constraining the role of molecular thermal dissociation. This cannot be achieved without NIRSpec, as NIRISS will be relatively insensitive to carbon-bearing species. Measured variations of H2O and CO spectral bands will also give a longitudinal map of the atmosphere's vertical thermal structure, revealing in unprecedented detail the dramatic transition from a dayside thermal inversion to a nightside that cools with altitude. Combined with existing optical data, this will allow the global balance between absorbed shortwave radiation and re-emitted longwave radiation to be determined empirically. Dynamics play a crucial role in this story, and our NIRSpec phase curve will probe wind speeds as a function of pressure, as well as the overall efficiency of day-night advective heat transport. Combining our NIRSpec phase curve with those measured by NIRISS and TESS will also provide the most precise measurement of a planetary Bond albedo outside the solar system.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will acquire a full-orbit phase curve of the hot Jupiter WASP-121b using NIRSpec with the G395H grism. We will use the Bright Object Time Series (BOTS) mode optimized for transiting exoplanet observations, using the 1.6"x1.6" square aperture with no dithering. Since WASP-121 is too bright for WATA, we have selected a fainter nearby star for offset acquisition (using GAIA DR2).

Our observation consists of a single exposure lasting 37.6 hours (charged time of 44.7 hours). Based on HST and Spitzer experience, the exposure is phase-constrained to begin shortly before a secondary eclipse and conclude shortly after the following secondary eclipse. This will allow the stellar baseline flux (i.e. the in-eclipse flux level) to be calibrated at the beginning and end of the exposure to track any instrumental drift. The phase window is 60 minutes wide.

We determined an optimal detector readout pattern and groups per integration using the officially-supported ExoCTK platform (https://exoctk.stsci.edu). Signal-to-noise ratios for the phase-dependent emission spectra were calculated using PandExo (https://exoctk.stsci.edu/pandexo).