---
id: 1731
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU  MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Stephanie Jarmak"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "8.7"
program_title: "Variability and Abundance of Hydration on M-Type Asteroid (16) Psyche: The Search for Water on the Largest Metallic Asteroid"
type: "GO"
---
# 1731 - Variability and Abundance of Hydration on M-Type Asteroid (16) Psyche: The Search for Water on the Largest Metallic Asteroid
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1731
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                       | Observing Template                     | Science Target    |
| :-------------------------- | :------------------------------------- | :---------------- |
| Visit 1: NIRSpec            | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy               | (1) PSYCHE        |
| OFFSET - Visit 1: NIRSpec   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy               | (2) PSYCHE-OFFSET |
| Visit 1: MIRI               | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (1) PSYCHE        |
| OFFSET - Visit 1: MIRI      | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (2) PSYCHE-OFFSET |
| Visit 2: NIRSpec            | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy               | (1) PSYCHE        |
| OFFSET - Visit 2 NIRSpec    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy               | (2) PSYCHE-OFFSET |
| Visit 2: MIRI               | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (1) PSYCHE        |
| OFFSET - Visit 2: MIRI      | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (2) PSYCHE-OFFSET |

---

## ABSTRACT

Our current understanding of Solar System evolution hinges on interpreting the history of the asteroids. M-type asteroids in particular potentially represent the exposed cores of differentiated planetesimals, but there is insufficient data to claim with certainty that these asteroids are purely metallic. Previous detections of hydration and phyllosilicates on their surfaces further complicate the assumed composition of these asteroids. We propose to observe (16) Psyche, the prototypical M-type asteroid and target of the upcoming NASA Discovery mission 'Psyche', to quantify the amount and variability of hydration present on (16) Psyche's surface and to unambiguously determine if the hydration is a result of hydroxyl or water molecules. Our program will obtain high SNR, high spectral resolution, near to mid-IR spectra of (16) Psyche to detect and contemporaneously observe the entire 3-micron and 6-micron absorption and emission bands attributed to hydroxyl and/or water, potentially uniquely identifying water for the first time. We propose to observe (16) Psyche with a total of two visits using the NIRSpec Integral Field Unit and MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy instruments to obtain spectra from two, distinct hemispherical regions and thereby measure any global variability of the hydration features. JWST's unique capability to measure the entire 3 and 6-micron bands on the largest M-type asteroid will unambiguously identify the presence of water or hydroxyl on (16) Psyche, constraining (16) Psyche's surface composition and impact history, providing critical context for the upcoming 'Psyche' mission and interpretations of hydration features observed on asteroids.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Observe (16) Psyche with JWST to quantify the amount and variability of hydration present on (16) Psyche's surface and unambiguously identify the presence of water molecules if present through the measurement of the entire 3-micron and 6-micron spectral regions during two observation visits. The proposed observation plan includes a total of two visits using the NIRSpec Integral Field Unit (IFU) and MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy (MRS) instruments. The purpose of the two visits is to obtain spectra from two, distinct hemispherical regions of (16) Psyche's surface and thereby measure any global variability of the 3-micron and 6-micron features.

The following gratings of the NIRSpec IFU are required to measure the depth and shape of the 3-micron feature: G140H/F100LP, G235H/F170LP, and G395H/F290LP. To characterize the 6-micron feature requires the MIRI MRS Channel 1 Medium wavelength filter. For each visit to (16) Psyche, ~172 s of observation time is planned for each NIRSpec IFU filter and ~633 s for the MIRI observation. The exposure time is set by 3 groups per integration with a 4-point dither for the NIRSpec observations and 57 groups per integration with a 4-point dither for the MIRI observations. Each observation also includes a nod off scene with the aperture centered on the source. For the NIRSpec observations the Full Frame subarray and the NRSRAPID readout pattern are used. For the MIRI observations the FULL subarray and the FAST readout pattern are used. The ETC tool verified that these parameters would yield the maximum SNR without saturating the instrument for the brightest possible magnitude of (16) Psyche within the observable date ranges and that the SNR threshold is still met for the dimmest magnitude of (16) Psyche.

In order to search for hemispheric heterogeneity, the two visits will need to take place during different epochs so distinct regions of (16) Psyche are visible. For the first observable date range of April 11 – June 5 2022 the possible observations would be primarily equatorial. For the second and third observable date ranges of February 6 - March 31 2023 and June 20 - August 14 2023, the possible observations would be primarily polar. Therefore, we require the first visit to occur during the first available date range and the second visit to occur during either the second or third available date range.