---
id: 1740
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/FS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Yuichi Harikane"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "6.6"
program_title: "H-drop Galaxies: \"Rosetta Stones'' at z~13 for Galaxy Formation Studies"
type: "GO"
---
# 1740 - H-drop Galaxies: "Rosetta Stones'' at z~13 for Galaxy Formation Studies
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1740
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template            | Science Target     |
|-------|-------------------------------|--------------------|
| HD1   | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (1) HD1            |
| HD2   | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (2) HD2            |
| HD3   | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (3) HD3            |
| HD3   | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (3) HD3            |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose NIRSpec/PRISM spectroscopy to confirm the Lyman break in secure candidates of luminous Lyman break galaxies at z~13. These galaxies were found in an H-band dropout selection to search for unprecedentedly high-z objects at z>12 in the 2.3 deg2 near-infrared deep imaging data in the COSMOS and UDS fields. After careful examination of non-detections in the deep optical to H-band images as well as the flat spectrum from K-band to Spitzer IRAC [3.6] and [4.5]-bands, only three candidates remain. The absolute magnitudes of these objects are typically -23.4 and the photometric redshifts are estimated to be z>12. An ALMA program targeting one of the candidates shows a tentative [OIII]88um emission line at z=13.3. The line flux is at the lower edge of the expectation, implying that this galaxy is a very low-metal system before chemical enrichment begins. A successful detection of the Lyman break from at least one object among them will yield the new redshift record far from the current ones at z=9.1 and z=11.1, and demonstrate the JWST capability for confirming galaxies at z>12. These z~13 galaxies are luminous enough to be followed-up with higher spectral resolution modes and will be ``Rosetta Stones" for galaxy formation studies, once their redshifts are determined.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This program will conduct NIRSpec spectroscopy for three z~13 galaxy candidates.
We will use PRISM to cover expected wavelengths of the Lyman breaks given photo-z accuracies, and the 0.4"-fixed slit to maximize signal-to-noise ratios and distinguish the Lyman alpha breaks at z~13 from low-z solutions in short integration times.
We will use Wide Aperture Target Acquisition (WATA) because our targets are as bright as K = 24.2-24.9 ABmag.
The Background Limited special requirement is used, as the achieved S/N changes by ~10% between low and high background.