---
id: 1741
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Alexey Potapov  Co-PI: Jeroen Bouwman"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "11.6"
program_title: "Solid-state Water Inside the Snowline in Planet-forming Disks: Exploring the Origin of Water on Terrestrial Planets"
type: "GO"
---
# 1741 - Solid-state Water Inside the Snowline in Planet-forming Disks: Exploring the Origin of Water on Terrestrial Planets
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1741
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label               | Observing Template              | Science Target    |
| :------------------ | :------------------------------ | :---------------- |
|                     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy        | (1) S216-0939     |
|                     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) S216-0939     |
|                     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy        | (2) 132-1832      |
|                     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) 132-1832      |
| Copy of Observation 1 | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy        | (1) S216-0939     |
| Copy of Observation 4 | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy        | (2) 132-1832      |

## ABSTRACT

The importance of water in our everyday life as well as in biochemical processes on Earth is undeniable. Water is also one of the main molecular species in different astrophysical environments, such as prestellar cores, protostellar envelopes, planet-forming disks, and planetary atmospheres, and it is evidently required for the formation of life as we know it. Understanding the role of water in planet formation and the chemistry of protoplanetary disks and its delivery to rocky planets is a key requirement to understand the atmospheric composition of planets and the origins of life on Earth and, potentially, extrasolar planets.

The main goal of our proposal is to understand if water can be present in the solid state inside the snowline in planet-forming disks. Very recent laboratory experiments indicate that water ice can be trapped as part of a silicate/ice compound and thus survive in solid form beyond the sublimation temperature. A detection of trapped water and an estimation of its abundance will reinforce the wet scenario of the origin of water on Earth and terrestrial planets. A detection of silicate spectral bands will allow us to determine the silicate/trapped water mass ratio and to estimate the possible amount of water in building blocks of the planets.

An associated goal of the proposal is to search for minor bands of complex organic molecules and organic compounds to reveal the chemical complexity of planet-forming disks. These complex species may be present together with trapped water in building blocks of rocky planets inside the snowline. Their detection will critically advance our understanding of the origin of prebiotic molecules and life on Earth.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This proposal aims at observing 2 edge-on protoplanetary disks in Orion (S216-0939 and 132-1832) with the IFUs of NIRSPEC and MIRI. The NIRSPEC observations use the medium resolution settings G235M/F170LP and G395M/F290LP to cover the 2 to 5 micron wavelength range, and especially to seamlessly cover the full extent of the water ice feature between 2.7 and 3.5 micron. As the targets are expected to be slightly extended at the shortest wavelengths of NIRSPEC we use a 4-point dither. Given the IFU size we apply a target acquisition for the NIRSPEC observations on 2 nearby stars to make sure our targets are properly centered on the image slicer. We use nearby stars with good-quality GAIA information for the TA as the target itself is moderately extended. As the IFU size of MIRI is large enough, no TA is needed. The MIRI/MRS observations are done for all 3 grating settings so the entire wavelength range between 5 and 28 mircrons is continuously covered. In the MIRI range we are especially interested in the silicate absorption features at 10 and 18 microns, as well as several faint absorption signals of complex organic molecule ices, mainly in the 5-10 micron range. For the MIRI observations we apply a 4 point dither, to get a proper spatial and wavelength sampling. At the longer wavelengths the sources are expected to be compact, meaning the background can be estimated from the observations itself and no additional off-pointing is required.