---
id: 1743
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/LRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Megan Mansfield"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 12.6
program_title: "Constraining the Atmosphere of the Terrestrial Exoplanet Gl486b"
type: "GO"
---
# 1743 - Constraining the Atmosphere of the Terrestrial Exoplanet Gl486b
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1743
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label        | Observing Template              | Science Target |
| :----------- | :------------------------------ | :------------- |
| Gl486_visit1 | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) GL486      |
| Gl486_visit2 | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) GL486      |

---

## ABSTRACT

JWST will provide the first opportunity to search for signs of habitability on terrestrial planets orbiting M dwarf stars. However, it is currently unknown whether planets around M dwarfs can retain atmospheres given the relatively violent history of extreme UV irradiation from their host stars. The first step to understanding the habitability of rocky planets is therefore to establish whether M dwarf terrestrial planets can retain significant atmospheres. Furthermore, terrestrial exoplanets well inside the inner edge of the habitable zone offer a chance to test theories of atmospheric evolution in a previously unexplored regime.

We propose to use MIRI/LRS secondary eclipse observations to search for the presence of an atmosphere on the terrestrial M dwarf planet Gl 486b (TOI 1827.01) and to constrain its composition. Gl 486b is the highest signal-to-noise terrestrial planet for these observations other than LHS 3844b, which has been previously observed with Spitzer and found to not possess an atmosphere. Additionally, Gl 486b has less than one quarter of the integrated XUV flux of LHS 3844b, which means it is much more likely to have retained an atmosphere. We find that with two secondary eclipse observations of Gl 486b we can determine whether or not it has an atmosphere with a surface pressure of P1 bar at the 5-sigma significance level. The observed spectrum will also constrain the composition of its atmosphere (if one is observed) or surface (if no atmosphere is detected) at the 3-sigma significance level. These observations will provide valuable data for constraining the impact of M dwarf irradiation on terrestrial planet atmospheres.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will perform time-series observations to measure the secondary eclipse of the exoplanet Gl 486b. The fundamental parameter that determines the length of our time-series observations is the eclipse duration of Gl 486b, which is 1.08 hours. In addition to this length of time, we need to observe out-of-eclipse baseline in order to identify and effectively model any instrument systematics. Such systematics typically introduce red noise, which can occur on varying timescales and requires longer observational baselines to identify, characterize, and remove. We include 3 hours of baseline, as a 3/1 ratio of baseline to in-eclipse observing should allow us to successfully identify and remove systematics. We also include 30 minutes to allow the telescope to settle. Including such a settling time has become standard in space-based exoplanet observations because of the increased influence of instrument systematics immediately after repointing. For example, Spitzer Space Telescope observations often included 30 minutes of settling time and Hubble Space Telescope observations frequently included an orbit (about 45 minutes) of settling time. Including overheads, the total time we request for these observations is therefore 6.3 hours per eclipse, or a total of 12.6 hours for the two eclipse observations.

MIRI/LRS time-series observations use the SLITLESSPRISM mode without dithers. We used PandExo to simulate our proposed observations and determine the optimal observing pattern. We will use the FAST readout pattern with 5 groups/integration and 20735 integrations/exposure, for a total of 4.58 hours of observing time per visit. This observing strategy will ensure we remain below 76% of the saturation limit and has an overall efficiency of 80%. The visit must cover the secondary eclipse of Gl 486b, so the phase constraints we have placed ensure that there will be at least 1 hour of out-of-eclipse baseline on either side of the eclipse.

We will use the F1500W filter for target acquisition. Our single target acquisition integration will consist of 4 groups, which will result in a SNR of 420 for target acquisition while staying at 17% of the saturation limit.