---
id: 1747
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 6
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Guido Roberts-Borsani"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "25.1"
program_title: "Linking Bright Galaxy Properties to IGM Opacity and Environment in the Early Epoch of Reionization with NIRSpec"
type: "GO"
---
# 1747 - Linking Bright Galaxy Properties to IGM Opacity and Environment in the Early Epoch of Reionization with NIRSpec
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1747
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label             | Observing Template               | Science Target           |
| :---------------- | :------------------------------- | :----------------------- |
| 0037-3337 MSA     | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (22) BORG-0037-3337     |
| 0314-6712 MSA     | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (18) BORG-0314-6712     |
| 0440-5244 MSA     | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (26) BORG-0440-5244     |
| 0853+0309 MSA     | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (23) BORG-0853+0309     |
| 0859+4114 MSA     | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (13) BORG-0859+4114     |
| 1033+5051 MSA     | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (15) BORG-1033+5051     |
| 1437+5044 MSA     | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (16) BORG-1437+5044     |
| 2203+1851 MSA     | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (17) BORG-2203+1851     |
| 0409-5317 MSA     | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (24) BORG-0409-5317     |
| 0955+4528 MSA     | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (25) BORG-0955+4528     |

## ABSTRACT

Lya observations of luminous z~8 galaxies with red Spitzer/IRAC 3.6-4.5 micron colors have resulted in significantly higher detection rates than in galaxies without such an excess or in magnitude-limited samples, despite them lying in a predominantly neutral medium. The detection of Lya in such galaxies challenges our already limited understanding of the Reionization process and is perhaps suggestive of an extreme subset of the general population, characterised by particularly efficient ionizing capabilities. However, the vast majority of such galaxies have been found in small and concentrate patches of the sky, and thus whether they are all intrinsically extreme or simply trace clustered environments remains untested. To test this theory, observations of rest-frame optical galaxy properties are necessary since Lya is sensitive to the surrounding HI and thus not a direct probe of the galaxy, while observations over large areas of the sky are a prerequisite to disentangling the combined effects of clustering and cosmic variance. We therefore propose NIRSpec/prism spectroscopy of the 10 best, bright z~8 galaxy candidates from the SuperBoRG survey, a compilation of HST imaging over 316 independent spanning an effective area of ~0.41 deg2, x2 larger than current legacy surveys. The long wavelength coverage of prism observations ensures both Lya and rest-frame optical features are simultaneously observed, allowing us to link the state of the IGM with intrinsic galaxy properties, while the (pure-)parallel nature of the SuperBoRG survey ensures we limit the effects of clustering and cosmic variance, and will provide a unique addition to upcoming ERS/GTO legacy data sets.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Pinpointing the birth of the first stars and galaxies and determining their role in transforming the Universe from a neutral state to a fully ionized one remains one of the holy grails of modern observational cosmology and one of the main motivations for the arrival of the James Webb Space Telescope (JWST). Observations of the Lyman-alpha (Lya) resonant emission line in z>7 galaxies as a probe of the opacity of the circumgalactic (CGM) and intergalactic media (IGM) have yielded mixed results. Thus far, successful measurements of the line at z~8 have yielded only a handful of convincing detections, which in turn have been exclusive to the most luminous and exceptional objects. The detection and high equivalent widths (EWs) of the line in a primarily neutral medium signifies the presence of an early (re)ionized bubble, the likes of which allow Lya to travel from the galaxy unimpeded until it is shifted out of resonance and no longer attenuated by surrounding HI. The revelation and presence of these early bubbles is as unexpected as it is puzzling. Are the host galaxies particularly efficient ionizers with extreme properties, or do they reside in clustered overdensities? Are they the sources responsible for an accelerated Reionination process? In order to answer these questions and determine the primary drivers of such early ionized bubbles, one must first disentangle (i) the neutral state of the surrounding IGM, (ii) the intrinsic properties of the host galaxies, and (iii) the effect of galaxy clustering and environment. Observations of Lya and rest-frame optical galaxy properties are required to separate the first two, while an appropriate sample across large areas of the sky is necessary to disentangle the third and suppress the effects of cosmic variance. JWST is the only facility that can definitively answer these questions and the long-awaited arrival of its unique spectroscopic IR capabilities now provides us with an opportunity to do so.

In this proposal, therefore, we aim to use the unique NIRSpec/prism capabilities to simultaneously observe Lya and the rest-frame optical properties of z~8 galaxies from a unique compilation of existing (pure-)parallel observations covering ~0.4 deg2 known as the SuperBoRG survey, with the aim of disentangling the aforementioned effects in a predominantly neutral medium and determine the main drivers of early Cosmic Reionization. We propose fixed slit spectroscopy for the 10 best and bright (H~25-26 AB) z~8-9 galaxies from the survey, with the aim of simultaneously observing Lya and rest-frame optical emission lines that are unaffacted by the IGM, namely [OII]3726,3729 A, [OIII]4959,5007 A and Hbeta, whose absolute fluxes and relative ratios provide estimates of the gas-phase metallicity, specific star formation rate, dust attenuation (from the so-called ``Balmer decrement"), and the strength of the surrounding radiation field. Additional, secondary measurements of the rest-frame UV+optical stellar continuum will add unprecedented constraints on the SFR and stellar masses of both young and old stellar populations, as well as their UV slopes, dust contents and stellar ages (from e.g., the rest-frame 4000 A break). We propose to do this in MOS mode in order to fill the MSA with additional "filler" galaxies of a wide variety of magnitudes and redshifts, where rest-frame UV-to-optical spectroscopy can be conducted simultaenously to the main targets in order to gain unique and unprecedented observations of 0<z<10 galaxies from (pure-)parallel observations and provide the community with a lasting data set with which to charaterise SFRs, stellar masses, metallicities and dust contents (from emission line measurements such as Halpha, [NII], [OIII], and Hbeta, as well as continuum measurements across the full wavelength range) across large areas of the sky. The proposed observations will provide a unique and necessary complement to upcoming ERS and GTO observations of legacy fields, which are unable to probe the effective area or independent sightlines afforded by the SuperBoRG survey.