---
id: 1751
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU  MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Melissa McClure"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 24.9
program_title: "Mapping Inclined Disk Astrochemical Signatures (MIDAS)"
type: "GO"
---
# 1751 - Mapping Inclined Disk Astrochemical Signatures (MIDAS)
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1751
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label              | Observing Template                  | Science Target      |
| :----------------- | :---------------------------------- | :------------------ |
| ESO-Ha569          | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy            | (10) ESO-HA569-NIR  |
| Tau042021          | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy            | (11) TAU042021-NIR  |
| ESO-ha569          | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (5) ESO-HA569       |
| ESO-ha569 sky      | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (7) ESO-HA569SKY    |
| Tau042021          | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (8) TAU042021       |
| Tau 042021 sky     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (9) TAU042021SKY    |

---

## ABSTRACT

Ice-coated grains in protoplanetary disks provide the bulk elements critical for both the emergence of life and observable signatures of exoplanets formed in these disks, while drawing a direct line of comparison to the cold bodies in the Solar System that delivered organics to Earth. The abundance and chemical variety of these elements feeding a newborn planet depend on the radial and vertical chemical gradients of ices in disks. Vertically, the physical processes driving ice chemical evolution (grain size, dust/gas ratio, and UV flux) vary towards the disk midplane, where planets form. Radially, the temperature structure of the disk produces a series of snowlines at which different ice species sublimate. A comprehensive assay of all major ice species has never taken place for disks, let alone a direct assessment of the 2D ice gradients.

We propose to leverage the unique capabilities of JWST's NIRSpec IFU and MIRI MRS to map such spatial variations in the ice species, relative to silicates, and in the degree of physical processing for a sample of isolated, edge-on disks. These disks are large enough to sample radially to 200 AU (<=30 AU resolution) and vertically to at least 100 AU with MIRI, and a factor of 2 larger with NIRSpec. Our observations are a factor of 10 deeper than any of the 5 GTO or Ice Age ERS observations of edge-on disks and contain larger disks, allowing for mapping of even weak ice species (e.g. CH4, CH3OH, and SO2) to within the CO snowline of these systems. This program will profoundly transform our understanding of planetesimal and planetary composition in the upcoming era of exoplanet characterization and asteroid sample return missions.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will observe three disks with NIRSpec IFU (G235H and G395H, R~2700) and MIRI MRS (R~2700-3300) modes. Target acquisition is not necessary for our sample, as JWST's blind pointing accuracy is expected to be 0.1''.

NIRSpec IFU: The two smaller disks require only one tile of NIRSpec each, while Tau 042021 requires a 2x2 mosaic in order to encompass the larger vertical extent of this disk. To keep these extended targets well within the FOV during dithers, we chose a small, 4-point cycling pattern. There will be enough background signal at the edges of the detector to subtract any sky signal, if necessary, our IFU exposures will also be reprocessed to extract and scale local background flux from the FS, which are always open to the sky.

The groups/integrations were chosen to reach a S/N per spaxel of 40 over the v-shaped scattering surface of the disk. This S/N was driven by the science case to obtain the grain growth profile for water in the absence of spectral rebinning, in order to also enable the detection of methanol ice overlapping the grain growth signatures in the water feature's red wing.

MIRI MRS: All three of the disks are small enough in scattered dust emission at 5 microns to fit into the MIRI MRS Channel 1 FOV. We constrain the PA of Tau 042021 in order to ensure the array is aligned within 20 degrees of the disk, to ensure that the disk limb fits onto the array. We chose a 4 point dither pattern, and have dedicated background fields selected using WISE images to avoid bright sources. We selected the combination of groups/integrations to get a S/N of 10 per spaxel, driven by the need to obtain CH4 and methanol ice at 3% of the continuum through spectral rebinning. For Tau 042021, the data rate was close to the maximum, so we used the SLOW readout pattern instead of FAST, which was used for the other sources. We also include simultaneous imaging in the off-target field in three different filters in order to check the astrometry a posteriori.