---
id: 1758
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/FS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Steven Finkelstein"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "2.6"
program_title: "Confirming a Potential Ultra-Massive Galaxy at z=10.57"
type: "GO"
---
# 1758 - Confirming a Potential Ultra-Massive Galaxy at z=10.57
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1758
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
1.  **List of the Labels, the corresponding Observing Template, and the Science Targets:**

    | Label | Observing Template            | Science Target       |
    | :---- | :---------------------------- | :------------------- |
    | 1     | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (1) UDS-Z910-18697   |
    | 51    | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (1) UDS-Z910-18697   |

## ABSTRACT

    Massive galaxies are excellent laboratories to test models of galaxy formation, as they represent where the key physical processes regulating galaxy growth collide as cosmic filaments intersect. Models with different physical prescriptions for galaxy growth via star-formation and negative stellar and black hole feedback make different predictions for the abundance of massive galaxies at early times (z >6). While these models likely need very wide-field infrared surveys to come from Euclid and the Nancy Grace Roman Space Telescope to constrain their abundances, we have fortuitously uncovered an extremely massive candidate galaxy at z>10.

    This galaxy, UDS_z910_18697, resides in the CANDELS UDS field. Its photometric signature and size is consistent with a galaxy at z > 10, with a stellar mass of log (M/Msol) > 11. Such massive galaxies at these early times should be exceedingly rare in the entire observable universe, and highly unexpected to be found in the CANDELS search volume. Followup ALMA spectroscopy has uncovered a significant emission line at 293.3 GHz, consistent with [OIII] 88um at z=10.57. While this could also be other emission lines at lower redshifts, an examination of all existing data in this field and a concerted followup effort with Keck and HST continue to find z > 10 as the most plausible solution. We propose for a quick 1 hr JWST/NIRSpec prism observation, which will conclusively measure the redshift of this source and, if it is truly at z=10.57, allow the measurement of a robust stellar mass free from the blending which plagues the current IRAC observations.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

    We propose for NIRSpec fixed slit spectroscopy with the PRISM/CLEAR grating for a H=25.3 z~10.5 galaxy candidate. We aim to spectroscopically confirm this high-redshift galaxy which has multiple plausible redshift solutions, thus the 0.7-5.3um coverage is optimal to cover spectral breaks and strong emission lines at multiple redshifts. We select the fixed slit to minimize slitlosses and improve background subtraction. We find that a 3422 sec (NRS readout with 15 groups and 12 exposures, with 3 integrations per exposure in the SUBS200A1 subarray) allows us to achieve a signal-to-noise per pixel of >~5 for all plausible spectral energy distriubtions for this source, assuming a resolved morphology consistent with the HST imaging. Our target galaxy is bright enough ($H$=25.3) to serve as its own acquisition target, as we find that using the FULL subarray with NRSRAPIDD6 readout, a 3 group acquisition exposure (t=172 sec) yields SNR=52. These observations have no special requirements.