---
id: 1759
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Maria Claudia Ramirez-Tannus"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 24.3
program_title: "Physics and Chemistry of Planet-Forming Disks in Extreme Radiation Environments"
type: "GO"
---
# 1759 - Physics and Chemistry of Planet-Forming Disks in Extreme Radiation Environments
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1759
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label          | Observing Template                | Science Target |
| :------------- | :-------------------------------- | :------------- |
| 76             | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (8) 76         |
| 62             | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (6) 62         |
| 62-repeat      | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (6) 62         |
| 69             | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (7) 69         |
| F51            | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (10) F51       |
| 86             | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (9) 86         |
| F11            | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) F11        |
| F16            | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (5) F16        |
| 11             | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) 11         |
| 34             | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) 34         |
| 39             | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) 39         |
| 122            | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (13) 122       |
| 123            | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (14) 123       |
| 123            | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (14) 123       |
| 94             | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (11) 94        |
| 94 - WOPR repat of 12 | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (11) 94        |
| 105            | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (12) 105       |
| F64            | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (15) F64       |

---

## ABSTRACT

Our knowledge about the formation history of planetary systems is obtained by comparing the demographics of proto-planetary disks with the exoplanetary system population. Most of the disks that we have been able to characterize to date are located in nearby low-mass star forming regions. However, it is well known that most stars form in denser environments and therefore, it is questionable that the well studied population of planet forming disks is representative of those in which most exoplanets were assembled. Due to their large distances and high densities, so far it has been impossible to study the physical and chemical properties of proto-planetary disks in massive star-forming regions. We will exploit the unique resolution and sensitivity of JWST/MIRI to explore for the first time the impact of disk evaporation on the disk structure, warm disk chemistry, and dust mineralogy, all of which are important for planet formation models and exoplanet atmosphere composition. The derived physical and chemical properties will be compared to similar data of low-mass star forming regions of JWST GTO programmes.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We request MIRI-MRS spectroscopy (5-28 micron) of 15 disk-bearing stars spanning a range of spectral types from A to M equally distributed between three sub-clusters in the star-forming complex NGC6357. To reach our science goals we require S/N~80 at 12.5 micron, and ~20 at 22.5 micron. The exposure time necessary to achieve our goals was calculated using the ETC; we simulated our targets with a typical T-tauri disk and scaled the model to the 8 micron flux of each source. The background level was calculated from Spitzer Ch4 and 24 micron images around our sources. The minimum S/N required is such that we can detect faint lines on top of the bright continuum.
We will use for the IFU Nod In Scene option for the background subtraction and the FAST readout mode in order to optimize the rejection of cosmic rays. We find that the optimal number of groups per integration to mitigate cosmic rays, but still have a reasonable exposure time is 40. This results in 40 groups per integration, 2 integrations per exposure, and 2 exposures per specification for each grating setting per source, resulting in a total exposure time of 45 minutes per source and a total of 11 hours of science exposure. Accounting for the overheads the total proposed time is 24.3 hours.