---
id: 1760
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/FS  MIRI/LRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Hyewon Suh"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "23.6"
program_title: "First Accreting Black Hole Candidates: Infrared-dropout Heavily Obscured X-ray AGNs"
type: "GO"
---
# 1760 - First Accreting Black Hole Candidates: Infrared-dropout Heavily Obscured X-ray AGNs
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1760
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label      | Observing Template             | Science Target       |
|------------|--------------------------------|----------------------|
| NIRSpec    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy       | (1) LID568           |
| MIRI       | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (9) LID568MIRI       |
| NIRspec    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy       | (2) LID2176          |
| NIRspec    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy       | (3) LID2619          |
| MIRI       | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) LID2619          |
| NIRSpec    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy       | (4) LID3488          |
| NIRspec    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy       | (5) CID1549          |
| NIRspec    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy       | (6) LID4959          |
| MIRI       | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (6) LID4959          |
| NIRspec    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy       | (7) LID1166          |
| NIRSpec    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy       | (8) BACKGROUND       |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose to obtain high-resolution NIRspec fixed slits (FS) spectroscopy and MIRI low-resolution slit spectroscopy (LRS) for newly discovered infrared-dropout X-ray sources (i.e., without any optical/NIR counterparts) in the COSMOS field. This is possibly the first population of accreting black holes, and/or heavily obscured AGNs at high redshift, providing a valuable observational constraint on a hidden phase of a significant growth of supermassive black hole (SMBH) in the early universe. Considering that our targets are optically dark, the JWST spectroscopy is the only instrument allowing to obtain the high-resolution IR spectra to detect the emission lines to confirm the spectroscopic redshift and classification for these sources. This proposed study will allow us to explore the most energetic and obscured phase of accreting black holes to understand the formation of SMBHs. Our program will facilitate the first detailed study of yet unknown heavily obscured population at early cosmic epoch.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will use NIRspec FS high-resolution spectroscopy for 7 objects with robust Spitzer/IRAC 3.6 and 4.5um detections to identify the nature of these sources, whether they are really direct collapse black holes (DCBHs) or a yet undiscovered population of heavily obscured black holes at high redshift. Our primary goal is to detect emission lines in order to obtain the spectroscopic redshift, as well as some other features, e.g., broad-lines and/or outflows. We will use the grating/filter combination of G395M/F290LP with FULL/NRSIRS2RAPID. By using the dual slit dither (S200A1 and S200A2), we will obtain complete wavelength coverage from 2.87um to 5.14um in high-resolution R~2700. We will also use MIRI LRS slit spectroscopy for 3 objects, which are detected in all Spitzer/IRAC and MIPS24um bands, to measure their MIR spectra with significant S/N, covering 5-12um wavelength ranges with R~100.