---
id: 1762
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Alexandra Pope  Co-PIs: Anna Sajina and Lin Yan"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "24.6"
program_title: "Halfway to the Peak: A Bridge Program To Map Coeval Star Formation and Supermassive Black Hole Growth"
type: "GO"
---
# 1762 - Halfway to the Peak: A Bridge Program To Map Coeval Star Formation and Supermassive Black Hole Growth
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1762
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                      | Observing Template                     | Science Target                   |
| :------------------------- | :------------------------------------- | :------------------------------- |
| xFLS15967z=0.579           | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (1) XFLS-IRS15967Z0.579          |
| xFLSSSTJ171324z=0.609      | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (2) XFLS-SSTJ171324Z0.609        |
| xFLSSSTJ172118z=0.555      | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (3) XFLS-SSTJ172118Z0.555        |
| xFLS562z=0.545             | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (4) XFLS-IRS562Z0.545            |
| xFLSSSTJ172458z=0.494      | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (5) XFLS-SSTJ172458Z0.494        |
| xFLS16047z=0.523           | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (6) XFLS-IRS16047Z0.523          |
| XFLS-BKG                   | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (9) XFLS-BKG                     |
| COS51728z=0.614            | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (7) COSMOS-MIPS51728Z0.614       |
| COS51982z=0.595            | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (8) COSMOS-MIPS51982Z0.595       |
| COSMOS-BKG                 | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (10) COSMOS-BKG                  |
| xFLSSSTJ172118z=0.555      | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (3) XFLS-SSTJ172118Z0.555        |

## ABSTRACT

The rate of star formation and supermassive black hole growth in galaxies has been decreasing over the last 10 billion years. This proposal aims to understand this decline by localizing and quantifying the active galactic nucleus (AGN), spatially resolving the star formation activity, and measuring the interstellar medium (ISM) conditions in eight infrared-luminous galaxies at z~0.6. Our sample exists at a time when the cosmic star formation rate density was >3 times higher than locally, but when locally well-established diagnostic lines are still visible to MIRI/MRS. Mid-IR spectroscopy is a powerful way to separate the AGN and star formation energetics in galaxies, and only now with MIRI/MRS are we able to detect the rich atomic lines to quantify the black hole accretion rates ( [NeV], [NeVI] ) and spatially resolve the star formation (Br-alpha) outside the local Universe. Coupling these key lines with the polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon dust features, the warm molecular hydrogen emission lines and other key spectral features, we will establish the physical state of the ISM halfway to the peak epoch of galaxy evolution. Our program leverages existing Spitzer/IRS spectroscopy to select an optimized sample spanning the full range of star formation to AGN dominated systems. Our program will produce a valuable dataset bridging the local and high redshift Universe by testing diagnostics of the AGN, star formation and ISM conditions at intermediate redshifts so they can be extended to higher redshifts in subsequent JWST cycles.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

**(1) Instruments**
We propose to use MIRI/MRS IFU to observe 8 galaxies at redshift of 0.6. We will use all four IFUs in three grating angles and obtain the spectra covering the full available wavelength region between 5 - 28 micron. As a bonus, we plan to take simultaneous direct images using in F560W filter with MIRI. This will produce 8 deep 5.6 micron images, covering a total of 18 sq. arcminutes.

**(2) Targets**
Our eight targets are summarized in Table 1 in the Technical Justification. Multiple targets within a same field reduces the telescope slew time after the first target. Furthermore, because the physical sizes of our targets are not larger than 1 arcseconds, our observations can be done efficiently in a single pointing for each target.

These sources all have Spitzer low resolution mid-IR spectra (see Figure 4 in the proposal). They are well studied in several published papers. In addition, these targets also have multi-waevlength photometry, HST images (both optical and Near-IR NICMOS), and optical spectroscopy. The detailed analysis has been performed on the Spitzer spectra and the fractional contribution to the total infrared luminosity has been quantified by the AGN fraction listed in the last column of Table 1.

**(3) Expected mid-IR line fluxes and exposure time calculation**
Our primary science goal is to detect mid-IR spectral features, including atomic fine structure lines, broad PAH features, and H2 molecular lines from rotational transitions. In order to estimate the expected line fluxes, we scale the line fluxes measured for a sample of nearby IR-luminous galaxies with high resolution spectra from Spitzer, assuming the same relation between line to total IR luminosity ratio as a function of AGN fraction (see left panel of Figure 5).

We are targeting a suite of lines, including [NeII], [NeIII], [NeV], Br-alpha, [NeVI], PAH3.3, PAH6.2, PAH7.7, H2S(2), H2S(3) etc. Of these features, the weakest are [NeV] in the star forming systems and Br-alpha because it is extended over an assumed region of 0.8"x0.8". We expect fluxes of 1.0e-16 erg/s/cm^2 for spatially unresolved [NeV] at the observed wavelength of ~22 micron and 1.05e-17 erg/s/cm^2 for Br-alpha within a single resolution element of 0.3" FWHM at roughly 6.25 micron.

With the primary science goal of detecting central accreting blackholes and spatially resolving star forming regions, we require our observations to achieve the minimum SNR of 5 for the weakest lines, [NeV] from a star forming galaxy, and Br-alpha in a single resolution element of 0.3" from an AGN dominated target. The JWST Exposure Time Calculator (ETC) gives 2220 seconds per pixel in order to achieve the minimum required SNR. Most of the other spectral features should be detected with much higher SNR (middle panel Figure 5).

**(4) Observational Plans:**
As AGN indicatosr, the [NeV] and [NeVI] lines will be spatially unresolved at a spatial resolution 0.7". Also at >20 micron, [NeII] and [NeIII] lines are likely marginally resolved. Dust features such as PAH6.2 and 7.7um could be resolved in Channel 3 (FWHM ~ 0.4"), but should not be more than 1", much smaller than FOV~5.6"x6.2". The spatially resolved Br-alpha is in Channel 1, with a FOV of 3.3"x3.7". Our assumption of Br-alpha is a square region of 0.8"x0.8". We adopt 4-point dither and optimize it for all channels for an extended source. Using APT Aladin to visualize the focal plan over an HST NICMOS image of three of our targets, we find that the extended 4-point dither pattern will offer enough sky pixels without galaxy contamination for good background subtraction, as well as ensuring that Br-alpha are mostly within the Channel 1 FOV for all four exposures (see also Figure 5 right panel). For both short and long wavelength detectors, the science exposures will use group of 200, integration 1, fast readout mode and extended 4-point dither, which yields 2220 seconds per pixel. While MIRI IFU is taking the spectrum, we will also take bonus MIRI imaging in F560W filter simultaneously.