---
id: 1764
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging  MIRI/Imaging  NIRSpec/FS  NIRSpec/IFU MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Xiaohui Fan  Co-PIs: Jinyi Yang and Eduardo Banados"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "65.5/8.6"
program_title: "A Comprehensive JWST View of the Most Distant Quasars Deep into the Epoch of Reionization"
type: "GO"
---
# 1764 - A Comprehensive JWST View of the Most Distant Quasars Deep into the Epoch of Reionization
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1764
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                             | Observing Template              | Science Target          |
|-----------------------------------|---------------------------------|-------------------------|
| J1007_NIRCam                      | NIRCam Imaging                  | (1) J1007+2115          |
| J1007_NIRCam_PSF                  | NIRCam Imaging                  | (6) PSF-J1007+2115      |
| J1007_MIRI_Imaging                | MIRI Imaging                    | (1) J1007+2115          |
| J1007_MIRI_PSF                    | MIRI Imaging                    | (6) PSF-J1007+2115      |
| J1007_NIRSPEC_FS_S200A1andA2      | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (1) J1007+2115          |
| J1007_NIRSPEC_IFU                 | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy        | (1) J1007+2115          |
| J1007_NIRSPEC_IFU_PSF             | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy        | (7) NIRSPEC-PSF-J1007   |
| J1007_MRS_SKY                     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (12) J1007-MRS-SKY      |
| J1007_MIRI_MRS                    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (10) J1007+2115-COPY-MRS |
| J0313_NIRCam                      | NIRCam Imaging                  | (2) J0313-1806          |
| J0313_NIRCam_PSF                  | NIRCam Imaging                  | (8) PSF-J0313-1806      |
| J0313_MIRI_Imaging                | MIRI Imaging                    | (2) J0313-1806          |
| J0313_MIRI_PSF                    | MIRI Imaging                    | (8) PSF-J0313-1806      |
| J0313_NIRSPEC_FS_S200A1andA2      | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (2) J0313-1806          |
| J0313_NIRSPEC_IFU                 | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy        | (2) J0313-1806          |
| J0313_NIRSPEC_IFU_PSF             | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy        | (9) NIRSPEC-PSF-J0313   |
| J0313_MRS_SKY                     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (13) J0313-MRS-SKY      |
| J0313_MIRI_MRS                    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (11) J0313-1806-COPY-MRS |
| J1342_NIRCam                      | NIRCam Imaging                  | (3) J1342+0928          |
| J1342_NIRCam_PSF                  | NIRCam Imaging                  | (4) PSF-J1342+0928      |
| J1342_MIRI_Imaging                | MIRI Imaging                    | (3) J1342+0928          |
| J1342_MIRI_PSF                    | MIRI Imaging                    | (4) PSF-J1342+0928      |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose to carry out comprehensive JWST observations of the only three quasars currently known at z>7.5, deep into the epoch of reionization (EoR). Luminous quasars at the highest redshift directly probe the formation of the earliest supermassive black holes (SMBHs) in the universe, enable studies of the evolution of early massive galaxies and their connections to SMBH growth, and provide sensitive constraints on the state of the intergalactic medium (IGM) during the EoR not accessible with other probes.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We have carefully designed a JWST program to address outstanding science opportunities that EoR quasars provide, capitalizing on the transformative capabilities of JWST. By employing a combination of imaging and spectroscopic observations using NIRCam, NIRSpec, MIRI and NIRISS, our program will (1) detect the stellar continuum and nebular emission of quasar host galaxies only 680 Myr after the Big Bang, to probe host galaxy assembly and to search for signatures of outflow and feedback, (2) map the large scale quasar environment, to test quasar formation models in the context of early structure formation, (3) yield reliable estimates of the SMBH masses and constrain physical properties of the quasar broad-line regions, and (4) provide the most accurate measurement of the IGM neutral fraction at z=7.5 and detect weak metal absorption features, to map the history of reionization and IGM enrichment.

These three EoR quasars constitute the culmination of decades of searches using all-sky surveys. They are the best JWST targets for quasars at the current redshift frontier and provide the definitive reference dataset for future EoR quasar and IGM science using JWST.

**OBSERVING DESCRIPTION**
The primary targets of our observations are the three most distant known quasars, J0313-1806 (z=7.64), J1007+2115 (z=7.52), and J1342+0928 (z=7.54), with a number of different observing modes. Quasar J0313-1806 is a newly discovered unpublished quasar. Quasar J1342+0928 will only be observed with NIRCam and MIRI imaging modes because the other modes we describe below are covered by GTO programs. We will also observe PSF stars for each quasar in the imaging or IFU modes. Below is the summary of the observing plan for each observing mode:

1. NIRCam Imaging (visit 1 and 2): three quasars, 9.1 hours science; 16.7 hours total.

The goal of the NIRCam imaging is to detect the quasar host galaxy of these three quasars with accurate PSF subtraction, and to detect galaxies in the quasar fields.

Visit 1: We will observe each of our primary targets with NIRCam imaging in three filter pairs, including three intermediate band and two broad band filters, with a total exposure time of 3768 sec for two pairs and 2802 sec for the other one. Because of the bright central quasar, we will use SHALLOW4 readout mode to avoid saturation. We will use INTRAMODULE three-points dither plus standard three-point subpixel dither pattern to improve the sampling, since our bluest filters are undersampled, and to fill the gaps between the SW detectors. We will use the FULL arrays to maximize the sky coverage to probe the environments of the quasars and to identify additional PSF stars.

-- Visit 2: We will observe a nearby late M-dwarf as our PSF star of each quasar. For the PSF star, we will use a 160P subarray readout and BRIGHT1 readout mode to avoid saturation.

2. MIRI Imaging (visit 3 and 4): three quasars, 4.4 hours science; 7.3 hours total.

-- Visit 3: The goal of the MIRI imaging is to detect the quasar host galaxy in the shortest MIRI wavelength filter (F560W) which covers the H_alpha emission line at z~7.6. We will use FAST readout mode with a four-point dither pattern to improve sampling.

-- Visit 4: We will observe the same PSF star of each quasar as in Visit 2.

3. MIRI MRS (visit 5): quasars J1007+2115 and J0313-1806, 4.2 hours science, 6.8 hours total.

The goal of the MIRI MRS observation is to obtain a high S/N mid-IR spectrum of each quasar to study quasar physics and to use as a quasar spectral template for future high-redshift quasar JWST observations. Therefore, we require a complete MRS wavelength coverage with all three grating settings. We will use SLOW readout mode with 2500 sec exposure in each setting for each quasar. We will carry out simultaneous imaging with MIRI in the F560W filter, which we will use to identify additional field PSF stars.

4. NIRSpec Fixed Slits (FSs) (visit 6): quasars J1007+2115 and J0313-1806, 1.8 hours science, 5.2 hours total.

The goal of the NIRSpec FSs observations is to obtain high quality near-IR spectra, uncontaminated by telluric features, to study IGM reionization and enrichment, and to provide a prototype quasar template for future high-redshift quasar JWST observations. We will use three high resolution settings with both slits (S200A1 and S200A2) to cover the wavelength range redward of rest-frame 1140A of the quasar SED. We will carry out 19 minute exposures in each of the G140H/F100LP, G235H/G170LP, and G395H/F290LP configurations.

5. NIRSpec IFU (visit 7 and 8): quasars J1007+2115 and J0313-1806, 22.6 hours science, 29.6 hours total.

The goal of the NIRSpec IFU observation is to obtain emission line flux and velocity maps of the quasar host galaxy, after PSF subtraction.

-- Visit 7: We will observe our primary targets with the G395M grating with a total integration of 10 hours per target, broken into multiple dithers. We will also carry out a 1.2 hour MSA leakage calibration exposure at the first dither position.

-- Visit 8: We will observe a nearby bright F star as our PSF star for each quasar. We will use RAPID readout mode to minimize overhead.

6. Parallel observations with NIRISS: three quasars, 8.1 hours science.

We request parallel observations in NIRISS imaging mode with NIRCam as the primary instrument in Visit 1. The NIRISS observations will image the field ~ 8-13 cMpc from the central quasar, significantly expanding the survey volume for the quasar environment study. We choose F090W and F115W filters for a dropout selection and will reach a similar depth to the NIRCam imaging. A direct comparison to the dropout sources in the NIRISS and NIRCam fields will provide us with a unique and important constraint on the clustering of galaxies around the three z~7.5 quasars.