---
id: 1786
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Richard Cartwright"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "18.7"
program_title: "The Moons of Uranus: A NIRSpec Investigation of Their Origins, Organic Constituents, and Possible Ocean World Activity"
type: "GO"
---
# 1786 - The Moons of Uranus: A NIRSpec Investigation of Their Origins, Organic Constituents, and Possible Ocean World Activity
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1786
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                          | Observing Template        | Science Target |
| :----------------------------- | :------------------------ | :------------- |
| Ariel Leading NIRSpec          | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (1) ARIEL      |
| Umbriel Leading NIRSpec        | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (2) UMBRIEL    |
| Titania Leading NIRSpec        | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (3) TITANIA    |
| Oberon Leading NIRSpec         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (4) OBERON     |
| Ariel Trailing NIRSpec         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (1) ARIEL      |
| Umbriel Trailing NIRSpec       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (2) UMBRIEL    |
| Titania Trailing NIRSpec       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (3) TITANIA    |
| Oberon Trailing NIRSpec        | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (4) OBERON     |
| Titania Trailing NIRSpec, reschedule | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (3) TITANIA    |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose to observe the leading and trailing hemispheres of the Uranian moons Ariel, Umbriel, Titania, and Oberon using NIRSpec IFU (G395M, 2.87 – 5.27 microns) to determine whether NH3-rich species, organics, and carbonates are present and measure CO2 ice and H2O ice features on these moons. These observations will provide an ideal opportunity to investigate the spectral evidence for past ocean world activity on these moons, assess the organic constituents on their surfaces, and measure carbon and hydrogen isotopes to assess the formation conditions in the Uranian subnebula. These science goals are highly challenging to investigate with ground-based facilities because of strong overprinting telluric bands over the 2.9 to 3.5 microns wavelength range. Furthermore, Earth's atmosphere is opaque between 4.2 and 4.5 microns, making detection and measurement of the 4.27-micron CO2 ice band on the Uranian moons and other planetary surfaces impossible to do using ground-based facilities. JWST is therefore the only existing facility that can make these observations. We require 9.96 hours of science time, and 20.72 hours of total charged time, to make the eight observations required to complete this project's science objectives. These observations will generate an important dataset that will inform the spectroscopic priorities of future spacecraft mission concepts that aim to explore Uranus and its moons.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to observe the leading and trailing hemispheres of the Uranian moons Ariel, Umbriel, Titania, and Oberon with NIRSpec IFU (G395M/F290LP), for a total of eight observations that require 9.96 hours of science time and 20.72 hours of total charged time. The charged time breakdown, per hemisphere, is as follows: Ariel, 2.35 hours; Umbriel, 3.88 hours; Titania, 1.97 hours; Oberon, 2.16 hours. The required amount of science time was estimated using the online JWST ETC. Our input ETC model was an H2O ice-rich synthetic spectra that accounts for these moons' strong 3-micron H2O ice absorption bands. Charged time includes utlizing 4-point dithering for each observation. Although scattered light from the disk of Uranus contributes to ground-based spectra of Ariel, the far superior point spread function of JWST will lead to vastly diminished scattered light contributions compared to ground-based facilities and will be negligible for each moon's entire orbit. To characterize compositional variations on these moons, we require NIRSpec observations to occur when their leading and trailing hemispheres are facing JWST (sub-observer longitudes of 90 degrees and 270 degrees, respectively). Observations occurring within ±45 degrees of these central sub-observer longitudes are sufficient to achieve our observing objectives: sub-observer longitudes 45 to 135 degrees (leading hemispheres) and 235 to 315 degrees (trailing hemispheres). These sub-observer longitude requirements cover half of each moon's orbit and will be routinely met by JWST.