---
id: 1791
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging  MIRI/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Justin Spilker"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "6.1"
program_title: "The Early Assembly History of the Most Massive Halo in the Reionization Era"
type: "GO"
---
# 1791 - The Early Assembly History of the Most Massive Halo in the Reionization Era
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1791
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                     | Observing Template | Science Target             |
| :------------------------ | :----------------- | :------------------------- |
| NIRCAM-CENTRALS           | NIRCam Imaging     | (2) SPT0311-58-NIRCAM      |
| REDO-NIRCAM-CENTRALS      | NIRCam Imaging     | (2) SPT0311-58-NIRCAM      |
| MIRI-CENTRALS             | MIRI Imaging       | (1) SPT0311-58-CENTRALS    |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose to measure accurate stellar masses and formation histories in the most massive halo known in the epoch of reionziation, SPT0311-58 at z=6.900. The structure is anchored by the most distant dust-rich galaxies known, a pair of ultramassive merging galaxies resolved into a chaotic and clumpy rapidly-assembling structure at 0.05" resolution with ALMA. Individual 300pc-size regions within these galaxies span the gamut of galaxy properties seen in the reionization epoch from UV-luminous to totally dust-obscured. Even counting only the currently known spectroscopically-confirmed galaxies, the minimum halo mass is ~10^13Msun just 800Myr after the Big Bang, more than an order of magnitude greater than any other overdensity found at z>6 and among the most massive halos expected over an area of thousands of square degrees. This structure offers the unique chance to understand the formation of an extreme peak in the primordial density field and the role of environment in the early evolution of massive galaxies. Using inexpensive and comprehensive NIRCam and MIRI imaging, we propose to measure accurate stellar masses and assembly histories; of these galaxies on sub-kpc scales, constrain the very earliest z>10 formation history, and map out the wider environment of this benchmark system. The combination of the unique high-resolution ALMA data, very deep HST imaging, and the proposed JWST data will allow a full characterization of the stars, gas, dust, and star formation in this cosmologically important halo of primordial starburst galaxies, well into the epoch of reionization.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose comprehensive NIRCam and MIRI imaging of SPT0311-58 at z=6.90, the most massive halo known in the epoch of reionization. Our observations are designed to measure the stellar masses and formation histories of the SPT0311-58 galaxies, and overlap in coverage with the deepest HST ACS+WFC3 imaging (existing + scheduled 2021) expected to reveal a strong overdensity of less-massive and less-luminous galaxies in the surrounding environment.

**NIRCam imaging:**
The NIRCam imaging uses 3 filters in the long wavelength channel, F300M, F335M, and F444W, with F200W in the short channel for all observations. The medium bands bracket the Balmer/4000A break at z=6.9, allowing a constraint on the early star formation history of these galaxies, while F200W probes the rest-UV and complements the deeper HST/WFC3 F125W+F160W imaging available in this field.
The PA is restricted to four broad ranges that allow an additional z=6.9 galaxy detected with ALMA to fall in the other NIRCam module while ensuring that the central galaxies receive the full depth. The target coordinates (target SPT0311-58-NIRCAM) are shifted from the true position of the primary galaxies of interest (target SPT0311-58-CENTRALS) to accommodate this restriction.
Depths are determined based on SED fits to the existing broad-band photometry, including shallow HST/WFC3, Spitzer/IRAC 3.6 and 4.5um, and many far-IR/submillimeter bands from Herschel, ALMA, and SPT, with a primary goal of reaching S/N>~20 integrated over the source, or >~5-10 in individual 0.2" apertures. High-resolution ALMA imaging reveals a complicated and clumpy dust morphology, and we expect that the rest-optical/NIR light will also be highly nonuniform. We use the readout modes and groups/integration recommended in JDox for maximal sensitivity in a given observing time, SHALLOW4 & 10 groups/integration for the F200W/F444W imaging (2104s total on-source integration) and MEDIUM8 & 7 groups/integration for the F200W/F300M and F200W/F335M imaging (2920s each).
We use the INTRAMODULEBOX 4-point dither pattern, as we do not require the gap between modules to be filled in and are more interested in achieving maximal depth for the central galaxies of interest.

**MIRI imaging:**
The MIRI imaging targets the central galaxies in four filters, F560W, F777W, F1280W, and F1800W, covering the rest-optical/NIR at z=6.9. We have no PA requirements for these observations (although we presume they will be executed at the same time as the NIRCAM imaging).
Depths again are determined based on our SED fits to the existing photometry, with the same target S/N as the NIRCam imaging. We use the FAST readout mode with 100 groups/integration for all 4 filters (1110s on-source per filter), which is sufficient for our purposes because the target galaxies are expected to be brighter at longer mid-IR wavelengths.
We use the 4-point dither sets with starting position 5 to ensure the central target galaxies receive the full depth.