---
id: 1794
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Akin Yildirim  Co-PIs: Sherry Suyu and Tommaso Treu"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "9.5"
program_title: "100% Gain in Precision and Accuracy of H0 Measurement from JWST Stellar Kinematics of a Lens Galaxy"
type: "GO"
---
# 1794 - 100% Gain in Precision and Accuracy of H0 Measurement from JWST Stellar Kinematics of a Lens Galaxy
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1794
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                  | Observing Template         | Science Target                     |
| :--------------------- | :------------------------- | :--------------------------------- |
| RXJ1131.1231-obs       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy   | (1) RXJ1131-1231.LENSGALAXY |
| background-obs         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy   | (2) BACKGROUND                     |

## ABSTRACT

Gravitationally lensed quasars provide an independent way to measure the Hubble constant (H0) that is crucial for assessing the current H0 tension and possible new physics beyond LCDM. The dominant source of uncertainty is the radial mass profile of the lens galaxy that cannot be constrained by lensing data alone without model assumptions. Stellar kinematic measurement of the foreground lens galaxy breaks the mass-sheet degeneracy and provides a vital mass profile constraint. We propose to observe the strongly lensed quasar RXJ1131-1231 with the NIRSpec IFU to obtain spatially resolved stellar kinematic maps of the foreground lens galaxy, that has been impossible to obtain using ground-based facilities. Given the small (~1") image separation between the multiple quasar images and the lens galaxy, the high-spatial and spectral resolution of JWST will resolve and separate the spectra of the foreground lens and the background quasar. With our proposed NIRSpec data on this one lens system alone, we will reduce the relative uncertainty on H0 from 8% to 4% in combination with our current lens sample in flat LCDM cosmology, i.e., a 100% gain in precision, with minimal mass profile assumptions. The proposed observations will further enable the study of the stellar initial mass function and dark matter distribution in the lens galaxy, and of the supermassive black hole-host connection of the gravitationally lensed background galaxy. The proposed data set of spatially resolved kinematic measurements of the lens galaxy will be a crucial step in our roadmap to obtain a 1% HO measurement from time delays.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose for deep spectroscopic observations with the NIRSpec IFU to acquire spatially resolved kinematic data of the foreground lens and background quasar host galaxy, aiming for a S/N of ~35 per pixel at the center of the lens. For this purpose, we will employ the G140M/F100LP disperser/filter set-up to target the Ca II triplet features, which are shifted into the near-infrared given the lens and source redshift of 0.295 and 0.654 respectively. To cover the lens and background host galaxy, we will enlarge NIRSpec's FOV by adopting a 2x2 mosaic mapping pattern, with an overlap of 1" between the individual tiles. This results in a coverage of 5"x5" and enables us to obtain spectroscopic data of the lens-source system, independent of the detector orientation. In each tile, we will use a small cycle dither pattern with subarcsecond shifts, consisting of 4 dither positions, to allow for the identification and removal of cosmic rays and detector defects. The low surface brightness wings demand improved noise performance, which will be accomplished by employing the IRS2 readout mode with the NRSIRS2 readout pattern. For each of the 4 dither positions, we will expose for a total of 1050.4 s, with 2 integrations and 7 groups to avoid any saturation by even the brightest quasar images. The 4 dither positions per tile are followed up by one MSA leakage calibration of 1050.4 s. The mosaic will be accompanied by a background observation, with the same exposure time as a single science exposure followed by a MSA leakage calibration, to mitigate possible stray light contamination. Summed over all 4 tiles and background, the observing strategy amounts to a total of 6.2 h (9.5h including overheads).
Target: RXJ1131-1231
Target Coordinates: RA 11:31:51.449 DEC -12:31:58.33