---
id: 1798
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: John Tobin"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "7.6"
program_title: "Characterizing Accretion Signatures in the Youngest Protostars: The Case of L1527 IRS"
type: "GO"
---
# 1798 - Characterizing Accretion Signatures in the Youngest Protostars: The Case of L1527 IRS
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1798
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                             | Observing Template              | Science Target       |
| :-------------------------------- | :------------------------------ | :------------------- |
| L1527 NIRSpec                     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy        | (3) L1527IRS-NIRSPEC |
| L1527 MIRI MRS Background         | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) L1527-IRS-BG     |
| L1527 MIRI MRS                    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) L1527IRS         |
| L1527 NIRSpec redo                | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy        | (3) L1527IRS-NIRSPEC |
| L1527 MIRI MRS Background redo    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) L1527-IRS-BG-2   |
| L1527 MIRI MRS redo               | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (5) L1527IRS-MRS-2   |

## ABSTRACT

We propose to use JWST to characterize the mode of accretion (magnetospheric or boundary layer) and its rate onto one of the nearest (d=140 pc) and best characterized Class 0 protostars, L1527 IRS. Accretion is the fundamental process of building up stellar mass and this process has not been directly characterized toward the youngest, Class 0 protostars. Accretion is typically probed using hydrogen lines, and more-evolved protostars are found to be undergoing magnetospheric accretion with their rates characterized using spectroscopy from 1 to 2.5 microns. However, direct probes of accretion onto Class 0 protostars do not currently exist because the protostars are enshrouded in dense envelopes, making them prohibitively faint for ground-based spectroscopy between 1 and 5 microns. Only JWST provides the sensitivity required to detect hydrogen recombination lines toward Class 0 protostars between 3 and 8 microns where they exhibit their brightest emission shortward of 10 microns. We will use the NIRSpec and MIRI MRS IFUs to observe the Br-alpha (4.05 microns), Pfund-alpha (7.46 microns), beta (4.65 micron), and gamma (3.74 micron) lines toward L1527 IRS. These data will provide some of the first direct evidence for the mode of accretion onto Class 0 protostars and the fraction of luminosity due to accretion in the system. Then, in conjunction with radiative transfer modeling, we will estimate the accretion rate onto the protostar using the hydrogen line luminosities, corrected for extinction using their intrinsic line ratios, estimated from accretion models.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will conduct NIRSpec IFU and MIRI MRS IFU observations toward the Class 0 protostar L1527 IRS. The goal is to characterize the mode of accretion (magnetospheric or boundary layer) and the luminosity of the hydrogen emission lines that we will be able to detect between 3 and 8 micron with the two instruments.

The NIRSpec IFU observations will be taken in a 4-point dither pattern centered on the scattered light disk previously observed toward L1527 IRS. We will use the medium resolution grating such that the Br-alpha line at 4.05 microns will be visible across the full IFU field of view. We will only observe with the G395M grating because shorter wavelengths are not expected to detect emission from the protostar due to extinction. We will take leakage calibrations as part of the program using the same expsosure time and dither pattern as the science observations in order to prevent contamination of the science target due to leakage through the MSA.

The MIRI MRS observations will be taken in a similar manner as the NIRSpec observations, in a 4-point dither pattern centered on the scattered light disk. The MIRI MRS observations are required to detect the Pfund alpha transition (7.46 microns) toward L1527 IRS in order to facilitate the interpretation of the hydrogen lines observed using NIRSpec. Near simultanteous observations with NIRSpec are required to avoid accretion variations causing the line luminosities to change. We only require observations using the long module as the Pfund-alpha line falls within the long sub-band of Channel 1, continuous spectral coverage is not required. We will take dedicated background observations with MIRI MRS on blank sky near L1527 IRS, observing in a 4-point dither pattern. We will use the same number of groups as the science exposures, but only observe for a single integration per exposure in the background observations.