---
id: 1802
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Tom Megeath"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "65.1"
program_title: "Investigating Protostellar Accretion Across the Mass Spectrum"
type: "GO"
---
# 1802 - Investigating Protostellar Accretion Across the Mass Spectrum
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1802
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                          | Observing Template                 | Science Target            |
| :----------------------------- | :--------------------------------- | :------------------------ |
| B335 MIRI IFU                  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy| (2) B335-SPECTROSCOPY     |
| B335 MIRI IFU background       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy| (3) B335-BACKGROUND       |
| B335 NIRSspec                  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy           | (1) B335                  |
| HOPS370 MIRI IFU               | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy| (5) HOPS370-SPECTROSCOPY  |
| HOPS370 MIRI IFU background    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy| (6) HOPS370-BACKGROUND    |
| HOPS370 NIRSspec               | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy           | (4) HOPS370               |
| IRAS 20126 MIRI IFU            | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy| (8) IRAS20126-SPECTROSCOPY|
| IRAS 20126 MIRI IFU background | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy| (10) IRAS20126-BACKGROUND |
| IRAS 20126 NIRSspec            | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy           | (7) IRAS20126             |
| IRAS 16253 MIRI IFU            | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy| (13) IRAS16253-SPECTROSCOPY|
| IRAS 16253 MIRI IFU background | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy| (14) IRAS16253-BACKGROUND |
| IRAS 16253 NIRSspec            | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy           | (12) IRAS16253            |
| HOPS 153 MIRI IFU              | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy| (17) HOPS153-SPECTROSCOPY |
| HOPS 153 MIRI IFU background   | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy| (16) HOPS153-BACKGROUND   |
| HOPS 153 NIRSspec              | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy           | (15) HOPS153              |

## ABSTRACT

We propose an Investigation of Protostellar Accretion (IPA) and accretion driven feedback using the NIRSPec and MIRI MRS IFUs. IPA will target 5 protostars with luminosities of 0.2 to 10,000 Lsun, stellar masses of 0.1 to 12 Msun, and distances of 150 pc to 1.6 kpc. Each shows a disk + outflow cavity morphology, is in its primary accretion phase, is deeply embedded, and requires observations at > 3 micron. Using JWSTs combination of sensitivity, angular resolution, and spectral resolution, IPA will observe each protostar in the 2.9-28 micron range and map ionic, atomic, molecular and continuum emission at spatial resolutions of 30 AU (for the lowest mass sources) to 300 AU (for the highest mass source). IPA will use spectroscopic signatures of disk accretion to measure the rate and mode of mass accretion, and measure how accretion scales with stellar mass. It will also observe shocks due to wide angle winds carving cavities into the protostellar envelopes, using the angular resolution of JWST to meassure mass flow and velocity along the cavities. The combination of accretion and wind data will show how the wind properties depend on accretion. Finally, IPA will look for the effect of radiative feedback from the most massive protostar, testing models of high mass star formation that require the release of radiation along outflow cavities. In total, IPA will observe in unprecedented detail the coupled accretion and feedback that plays a central role in determining the masses of stars, providing essential inputs for cloud scale simulations of star formation and the initial mass function, and setting the stage for future surveys with JWST to enlarge the sample.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will obtain observations of five protostars with the IFUs of NIRSpec and MIRI MRS.

MIRI MRS: IPA will observe in all three sub-bands of the four channels of the MRS. We will use a 2 x 2 mosaic with 10% overlap for four targets, and a 1 x 3 mosaic, with position angle constraint for the fifth. At each position, we will acquire 4 dithers to recover fully sampled data and to obtain redundancy in the data. To maximize dynamic range of the observations we use the FAST mode. We adopt 100 groups and 1 integration for three sources, 50 groups and 2 integrations for a fourth, and 10 groups with 4 integrations for the brightest source. We will obtain MIRI imaging simultaneously with integration times reduced to 25 groups in the F770W, F1280W, and F1500W. These will be used to register the IFU fields. Background observations with identical configurations and integration times will be taken at a nearby position chosen to avoid nebulosity and minimize stellar contamination.
NIRSpec: IPA will use the IFU in the G395M setting in a 2 x 2 mosaic with 10% overlap and the 4 point dither mode. To maximize dynami range and sensitivity, we will use the NRSIRS2RAPID mode with 30 groups and 1 integration, 15 groups and 1 integration, or 15 groups with 2 integrations. We will also obtain leakage measurements for all the dithers for three of our soures with complex environments. We will use the fixed slits for backgrounds as well as the IFU images themselves to subtract out complex, spatially varying astrophysical backgrounds.