---
id: 1803
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/LRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Jacob Bean  Co-PI: Eliza Kempton"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 48.7
program_title: "Unlocking the Mysteries of the Archetype Sub-Neptune GJ1214b with a Full-Orbit Phase Curve"
type: "GO"
---
# 1803 - Unlocking the Mysteries of the Archetype Sub-Neptune GJ1214b with a Full-Orbit Phase Curve
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1803
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :---------- | :--------------------------- | :------------- |
| PhaseCurve_1 | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) GJ1214 |

---

## ABSTRACT

GJ1214b is by far the best characterized exoplanet smaller than Neptune. Yet its extensively-observed transmission spectrum has only revealed a thick layer of aerosols, which obscures the molecular features that are needed to determine the planet's atmospheric composition. Furthermore, we still don't know what the aerosols are made of and why the planet is so thoroughly enshrouded.

We propose to use MIRI/LRS to observe the phase curve of the sub-Neptune GJ1214b in order to unlock the mysteries of its atmosphere. In one fell swoop, our observations will measure the planet's broadband phase curve, its phase-resolved thermal emission spectrum, and its mid-IR transmission spectrum. This program will give us first-time access to GJ1214b's thermal emission and the part of its transmission spectrum that should be the least impacted by aerosol scattering - both uniquely enabled by JWST. We anticipate that these observations will finally reveal the composition of GJ1214b's atmosphere and home in on the identity of its pervasive aerosols. This program will also provide the first map of a warm, sub-Neptune size planet, thus extending previous studies of atmospheric heat transport and dynamics into a new regime.

Ten years after its discovery, GJ1214b remains the highest S/N sub-Neptune size exoplanet for both transmission and thermal emission measurements. It is unlikely that a better target for investigating the nature of such planets will ever be found. These observations will therefore serve as a legacy dataset for contextualizing all previous and future studies of the ubiquitous sub-Neptune exoplanets.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This is a long, un-interrupted stare to measure the phase curve of the planet GJ1214b. The orbital period of the planet is 1.58 days. We aim to start 1.23 hr before a secondary eclipse, observe through the eclipse, a transit, and a second eclipse, and contine for 1 hr after the second eclipse. Due to data volume constraints, we broke the observation up into two visits. The break between the visits occurs about 1 hour after the transit ends. The two visits should occur consecutively, with as short an interuption as possible.