---
id: 1810
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Sirio Belli"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "46/35.7"
program_title: "The Stellar and Gas Content of Galaxies at Cosmic Noon"
type: "GO"
---
# 1810 - The Stellar and Gas Content of Galaxies at Cosmic Noon
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1810
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                 | Observing Template               | Science Target              |
| :-------------------- | :------------------------------- | :-------------------------- |
| BlueJay-NORTH-Final   | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (1) BLUEJAY-MASTER-NORTH  |
| BlueJay-SOUTH-Final   | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (2) BLUEJAY-MASTER-SOUTH  |

## ABSTRACT

The properties of galaxies in the local universe are substantially different from those measured at the peak of the cosmic star formation history, around z~2. Key questions about this evolution are still open: what physical mechanism is responsible for quenching star formation in massive galaxies? And what drives the observed evolution of the ionized gas emission? Using multi-object spectroscopy with NIRSpec, we aim to build a reference sample for the most important epoch of galaxy formation, by targeting about 150 galaxies with a uniform distribution in stellar mass (9 < log M/Msun < 11.5) and redshift (1.7 < z < 3.5). This program will transform our understanding of both the stellar populations and the ionized gas in high-redshift galaxies thanks to the broad wavelength range, low background, and low read-out noise offered by NIRSpec. Our representative sample will provide the first census of star formation histories and metal abundances for individual massive galaxies and, together with a suite of zoom-in simulations specifically designed to match these observations, will allow us to conclusively answer long-standing questions about the nature of galaxy quenching. We will additionally characterize the interstellar medium of high-redshift galaxies by measuring the complete suite of rest-frame optical emission lines, including many that are not accessible from the ground. By connecting the properties of the ionized gas to those of the stars measured in the same galaxy population, we will finally be able to build a consistent picture of how galaxies evolved over the last 10 Gyr.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We plan to observe a sample of galaxies at 1.7 < z < 3.5 with NIRSpec in the MOS mode. We will observe two pointings in the COSMOS field, using the following gratings and filters at each pointing: G140M/F100LP, G235M/F170LP, and G395M/F290LP. This will ensure a rest-frame coverage between 3700A and 1.2um for every galaxy in the sample. We adopt a 2-shutter nodding which in most cases will be used as a dither, since most of the targets are large enough to contaminate adjacent shutters. Background subtraction will be performed using a master sky spectrum derived from empty shutters. NIRCam parallel imaging will also be obtained, adopting a 2-point compromise dither.