---
id: 1813
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Madeline Marshall"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "15.9"
program_title: "Unveiling Stellar Light from Host Galaxies of z~6 Quasars"
type: "GO"
---
# 1813 - Unveiling Stellar Light from Host Galaxies of z~6 Quasars
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1813
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label      | Observing Template | Science Target                   |
| :--------- | :----------------- | :------------------------------- |
| QSO J2054  | NIRCam Imaging     | (2) QUASAR-SDSS-J2054-0005       |
| PSF J2130  | NIRCam Imaging     | (8) PSF-STAR-SDSS-J2130+0028     |
| QSO J0129  | NIRCam Imaging     | (3) QUASAR-SDSS-J0129-0035       |
| QSO J0129  | NIRCam Imaging     | (3) QUASAR-SDSS-J0129-0035       |
| PSF J0101  | NIRCam Imaging     | (10) PSF-STAR-SDSS-J0101+0007    |
| PSF J0101  | NIRCam Imaging     | (10) PSF-STAR-SDSS-J0101+0007    |
| PSF J0101  | NIRCam Imaging     | (10) PSF-STAR-SDSS-J0101+0007    |

## ABSTRACT

We propose to observe two z~6 quasars with NIRCam to prove the detectability of their host galaxies. High-z quasars outshine their hosts at rest frame UV/optical wavelengths. Observing the underlying host galaxy emission has eluded HST, even with advanced PSF-modelling techniques. However, detailed simulations predict that the improved resolution of JWST/NIRCam will result in successful detections of these host galaxies for the first time, with our observational strategy predicted to yield optimal detections. The two quasars selected for this pilot program were comprehensively studied with HST and ALMA, and are expected to have relatively low contrast between the quasar and host, improving detectability. The proposed pilot program will demonstrate the capability of JWST to observe high-z quasar host galaxies, and provide valuable insight into the growth of black holes and galaxies in the early Universe, and of the relationships between black holes and their host galaxies.

With these NIRCam data we will:
(a) Characterize the rest frame UV/optical SEDs of these quasar host galaxies, determining their star formation histories and dust content
(b) Determine the stellar mass of the hosts, allowing us to measure the black hole–stellar mass ratio for high-z quasars for the first time
(c) Compare the stellar (JWST) and gas (ALMA) properties of the galaxies such as their star formation rates, sizes, morphologies and masses, to see the full picture of these host galaxies
(d) Study the environments of these high-z quasars, photometrically identifying and characterizing any potential companion galaxies.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to obtain NIRCam photometry of the two quasars SDSS J0129-0035 at z=5.78 and SDSS J2054-0005 at z=6.04, with the aim of detecting and characterising their host galaxies. We will use the F150W, F200W, F277W, F356W and F444W filters, with exposure times of 7.5 ks for the short-wavelength filters and 5 ks for the long-wavelength filters. These will be observed with the 8-point small-grid dither pattern for accurate sub-pixel sampling of the PSF.

Alongside these quasar observations, we will observe two stars to accurately characterize the instrument PSF, to be used for detailed point-source modelling of the quasar to detect the underlying host galaxy. These PSF stars SDSS J0132-0002 and SDSS J2130+0028 are chosen as they are M-type stars with colors very similar to those of the quasars, so as to minimize chromatic PSF errors. They are faint enough to be detected with the NIRCam full array, are close to the quasars on the sky, and are single stars with no nearby contaminating objects. These PSF stars will be observed directly after the quasar observations, and at the same position angle and similar position on the detector, to minimize any temporal or spatial variation in the PSF so that the quasar PSF is modelled as accurately as possible.