---
id: 1835
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Sebastiano Cantalupo"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "24.4"
program_title: "Unraveling the Knots of Gaseous Cosmic Web Filaments at z~3 through H-alpha Emission Observations"
type: "GO"
---
# 1835 - Unraveling the Knots of Gaseous Cosmic Web Filaments at z~3 through H-alpha Emission Observations
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1835
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                   | Observing Template             | Science Target               |
| :---------------------- | :----------------------------- | :--------------------------- |
| MQN03_Plan2023h5        | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (7) MQN03_APT_allcat_v3      |
| MQN03_PlanSep2023c      | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (9) MQN03_APT_allcat_v092023b |
| MQN01_Plan2023ns        | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (6) MQN01_APT_allcat_v3      |
| MQN01_preimaging        | NIRCam Imaging                 | (3) QSOMQN01                 |

---

## ABSTRACT

Our cosmological model predicts that most of the matter in the universe is distributed in a network of filaments - the Cosmic Web - in which galaxies form and evolve. Because most of this material is very diffuse, its direct imaging has for long remained elusive, leaving many questions still open, e.g.: what are the morphological and kinematical properties of the Cosmic Web on both small (kpc) and large (Mpc) scales? How do galaxies get their gas from the Cosmic Web? Here, we tackle these questions with an innovative method to detect in emission the gaseous Cosmic Web using bright quasars as "cosmic flashlights". In particular, we propose to observe in H-alpha emission two fields at z~3 which contain the largest Cosmic Web filaments - over 4 cMpc in length - discovered so far in deep MUSE Ly-alpha emission searches around bright quasars. Because Ly-alpha is affected by radiative transfer which change both its spatial and spectral distribution, non-resonant H-alpha observations are fundamental in order to directly constrain both the filament densities and kinematics. The filament projected angular sizes are perfectly suited for NIRSpec-MOS which can trace the filaments over their full length capturing, at the same time, several embedded galaxies. Our H-alpha observations will probe structures within the filaments on scales smaller than a few physical kpc directly constraining both their density and kinematics. By relating these quantities to the kinematics and distance from associated galaxies, our result will be fundamental in informing a new generation of theoretical and numerical models in order to reveal the physics of intergalactic gas accretion and galactic outflows.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The observations for this program consist of NIRSpec Multi-Object-Spectroscopy using the G235H grating and F170LP filter within two different fields, labeled MQN01 and MQN03, centered on two bright quasars at z~3.2. These two fields contain the largest contiguous Cosmic Web filaments discovered so far in Ly-alpha emission around bright quasars.

The primary observational goal of this proposal is to detect the H-alpha emission produced by both gas and galaxies within these filaments. The emission is expected to be at a wavelength of about 2.7 microns. The region of interest in both fields extend to about 90" and they can therefore fit in a single MSA quadrant in each field. In particular, the MSA configurations are designed to follow the most interesting filamentary structures using a set of "slitlets" with a length not smaller than 3 MSA. The ideal PA which orients the MSA vertical direction parallel to the direction of the main filaments is within the schedulable range for both fields. Given the extended nature of our target, a range of PAs can be used as well in order to cover the filamentary structures and an optimal configuration can be provided once the PA is assigned. For similar reasons, continuum pre-imaging and Target Acquisition are not needed for our observations. A small nod and sub-pixel dither pattern will be used to mitigate the effect of open shutters, light-leakages and detector defects, as well as to improve PSF sampling. Open shutters in other quadrants and the fix slits will be used to obtain a "master background".

Observations for each field can be executed in single visits of duration 12.2 hours including overheads, estimated with the JWST ETC and APT in order to reach the required SN level. The observations, which are mostly read-out noise limited, are split in 21 exposures of about 27 minutes each per field in order to avoid excessive cosmic ray hits. In order to reduce data volume and flow, we will use the "NRSIRS2" read-out pattern splitting each integrations in 22 groups. Given the faint and diffuse nature of our targets, saturation and persistence are not an issue for our observations.