---
id: 1837
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: James Dunlop"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "187.2/94.97"
program_title: "PRIMER: Public Release IMaging for Extragalactic Research"
type: "GO, Treasury"
---
# 1837 - PRIMER: Public Release IMaging for Extragalactic Research
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1837
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                               | Observing Template | Science Target        |
| :---------------------------------- | :----------------- | :-------------------- |
| COSMOS-1                            | MIRI Imaging       | (3) COSMOS-1          |
| COSMOS -1 Copy of Tile-22           | MIRI Imaging       | (41) COSMOS-1-Tile-22 |
| COSMOS -1 Copy of Tile-21           | MIRI Imaging       | (40) COSMOS-1-Tile-21 |
| COSMOS -1 Copy of Tile-23           | MIRI Imaging       | (42) COSMOS-1-Tile-23 |
| COSMOS -1 Copy of Tile-24           | MIRI Imaging       | (43) COSMOS-1-Tile-24 |
| COSMOS -2 Copy of Tile-1            | MIRI Imaging       | (30) COSMOS-2-TILE-1  |
| COSMOS -2 Copy of Tile-11           | MIRI Imaging       | (31) COSMOS-2-TILE-11 |
| COSMOS -2 Copy of Tile-7            | MIRI Imaging       | (32) COSMOS-2-TILE-7  |
| COSMOS -2 Copy of Tile-20           | MIRI Imaging       | (33) COSMOS-2-TILE-20 |
| COSMOS-2                            | MIRI Imaging       | (4) COSMOS-2          |
| COSMOS -2 Split off Tile-19         | NIRCam Imaging     | (34) COSMOS-2-Tile-19 |
| UDS-2                               | MIRI Imaging       | (2) UDS-2             |
| UDS -2 Split off Tile-6             | MIRI Imaging       | (16) UDS-2-TILE-6     |
| UDS -2 Split off Tile-2             | MIRI Imaging       | (24) UDS-2-TILE-22    |
| UDS -2 Split off Tile-7             | MIRI Imaging       | (25) UDS-2-TILE-7     |
| UDS -2 Copy of Tile-6               | MIRI Imaging       | (35) UDS-2-Tile-6-Copy |
| UDS -2 Copy of Tile-7               | MIRI Imaging       | (36) UDS-2-Tile-7-Copy |
| UDS -2 Copy of Tile-2               | MIRI Imaging       | (37) UDS-2-Tile-22-Copy |
| UDS -2 Copy of Tile-8               | MIRI Imaging       | (38) UDS-2-Tile-8     |
| UDS -2 Copy of Tile-1 0 Repeat of Visit 2:8 | MIRI Imaging       | (39) UDS-2-Tile-10    |
| UDS-1 PA70                          | MIRI Imaging       | (1) UDS-1             |
| UDS -1_PA70 Split off Tile-13       | MIRI Imaging       | (10) UDS-1-TILE-13    |
| UDS -1_PA70 Split off Tile-23       | MIRI Imaging       | (11) UDS-1-TILE-23    |
| UDS -1_PA70 Split off Tile-9        | MIRI Imaging       | (23) UDS-1-TILE-9     |
| UDS -1_PA70 Split off Tile-17       | MIRI Imaging       | (28) UDS-1-TILE-17    |
| UDS -1_PA70 Split off Tile-19       | MIRI Imaging       | (29) UDS-1-TILE-19    |

## ABSTRACT

PRIMER (Public Release IMaging for Extragalactic Research) is a major public Treasury Program designed to provide the astronomical community with an early, large-area, homogenous, deep JWST NIRCam+MIRI imaging survey of enormous power and legacy value. Exploiting to the full the unique near-mid IR imaging capablities of JWST, PRIMER will have an immediate scientific impact, revolutionizing our knowledge of early galaxy and black-hole formation/evolution out to the highest redshifts yet probed. Moreover, executed early in the JWST mission, PRIMER can be a key driver for maximising the exploitation of JWST in subsequent cycles, as it will yield a wealth of new high-redshift targets for follow-up spectroscopy with JWST NIRSpec - we predict that PRIMER will reveal ~120,000 galaxies out to z~12, ~70% of which are new (i.e. undetected by HST or Spitzer). In addition, because PRIMER images the two key equatorial HST CANDELS Legacy Fields (COSMOS and UDS), new high-z targets will also be accessible with ALMA for follow-up at (sub)mm wavelengths, maximising the long-term impact of this major Cycle-1 program. By delivering fully-sampled 10-band NIRCam+MIRI imaging across a wide area, PRIMER enables a wealth of extragalactic science that cannot be addressed by the approved GTO or ERS programs. Indeed, PRIMER increases by a factor of ~20 the area of comparable-quality deep JWST imaging available to the community in Cycle 1, which we show is key to advancing our knowledge of the young Universe. To ensure the success of PRIMER we have assembled a large, expert, multi-national team. We will release all data with zero proprietary time, along with a wealth of higher-level data products.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

**PRIMER: Public Release IMaging for Extragalactic Research**

**OBSERVING STRATEGY**
Our proposed observing strategy is summarized in Figs. 7 and 9 of the proposal narrative. These show the layouts of our planned NIRCam and MIRI pointings within the CANDELS/COSMOS and CANDELS/UDS fields, and summarize the area/depth (per filter) for each subregion

**INSTRUMENT CONFIGURATION & DITHER PATTERNS**
Conceptually, PRIMER is a NIRCam proposal that includes parallel MIRI imaging. However, the smaller footprint of the MIRI imaging, and the importance of ensuring contiguous coverage, have led us to construct the observations as MIRI Prime with NIRCam Parallels. Since we use MIRI as our primary instrument with NIRCam in parallel, we employ one of the relevant "coordinated parallel optimized" dither patterns to achieve sub-pixel sampling for both instruments. Specifically, we have selected the prime/parallel dither pattern ("2-POINT-MIRI-F1800W-WITH-NIRCAM") that ensures good sub-pixel sampling of the NIRCam PSF.

**MOSAIC CONSTRUCTION**
The mosaics have been carefully constructed to maximise NIRCam coverage of the large CANDELS fields, and to maximise NIRCam/MIRI overlap with two-epoch, prime/parallel imaging. This places tight requirements on each epoch's JWST position angle (PA), which we have tuned with the APT Visit Planner to maximise overall schedulability. The oblique tilings, visavis the original CANDELS footprints, are compelled by the PAs available in these fields. The full coverage region in CANDELS/COSMOS is 144 sq.arcmin. of NIRCam, 112 sq.arcmin. of MIRI, and 100 sq.arcmin. of overlap. For CANDELS/UDS, those areas (in sq.arcmin) are respectively 234 NIRCam, 125 MIRI, and 120 of overlap.

**MIRI PRIME DETAILS**
As justified in the proposal narrative, we split our MIRI observing time esentially equally between F770W and F1800W. In the 187-hour total charged time of PRIMER, we reach 1776-sec depth in the two MIRI filters F770W and F1800W (101 science hours). The readout mode is ‘FAST' for all MIRI exposures, as this is the default for imaging; this mode minimises noise from the background-dominated regimes. The observations have been split into separate pointings for each filter configuration, to ensure we do not exceed the 28.5 GB downlink limit.

**NIRCam PARALLEL DETAILS**
Our science goals are achieved with NIRCam imaging in 8 filters: F090W, F115W, F150W, and F200W in NIRCam-SW; F277W, F356W, F444W, and F410M in NIRCam-LW. We select the SHALLOW4 readout pattern for maximum sensitivity at our achieved exposure depth of 837-sec across all NIRCam filters (95 parallel hours).

**TOTAL OBSERVING TIME REQUEST**
The total requested exectution time of our proposed PRIMER program is 187 hours. Given the combined science and parallel hours, PRIMER reaches a JWST observing efficiency of 105% (= 196/187).

**SCHEDULING & DATA VOLUME**
Due to its scale, and use of parallel imaging, the volume of data produced by PRIMER is inevitably substantial (even though we have chosen the recommended readout modes which minimize data volume without compromising on sensitivity). However we have checked carefully (and confirmed directly with the JWST Helpdesk and other experts at STScI) that our program is schedulable without violating data-download constraints (while still also adhering to the position angles required to produce our homogeneous mosaics). Specifically, PRIMER observing is split into 4 distinct observing windows (as required due to the restricted visibility of equatorial fields from JWST and our mosaicing requirements) and within each of these windows we have confirmed that PRIMER observing could be spread over at least ~10 days, hence requiring (at most) only one of the two daily ~28GB downloads for data delivery.

**DATA PRODUCTS**
Our data reduction and data product delivery plan identifies certain team members and so is described in the Team Expertise section. However, we duplicate here the key planned deliverables.
We will provide:
(1) fully reduced science-enabling data products to MAST covering all NIRCam and MIRI imaging data taken in a preliminary release and a final data release.
(2) validated separate and merged catalogues of NIRCam and MIRI detected objects from the processed images as a further science-enabling data product. The catalogues will contain total and (PSF-matched) aperture fluxes, with reliable error bars, in all the NIRCam and MIRI bands (as appropriate), as well as a comprehensive set of SExtractor parameters.
(3) a direct, quantitative comparison of the depth/quality achieved with the well-dithered PRIMER NIRCam data compared to under-sampled NIRCam imaging data (e.g. taken in parallel with ERS NIRSpec prime observations) as a function of exposure time; this should be a helpful service to the community for future planning of JWST observations.
(4) state-of-the-art photometric redshifts and SED-based rest-frame quantities (luminosities, stellar masses) of the galaxies in the combined catalogues.