---
id: 1840
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU  NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Javier Alvarez-Marquez  Co-PI: Takuya Hashimoto"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "33.9"
program_title: "ALMA [OIII]88um Emitters. Signpost of Early Stellar Buildup and Reionization in the Universe"
type: "GO"
---
# 1840 - ALMA [OIII]88um Emitters. Signpost of Early Stellar Buildup and Reionization in the Universe
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1840
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label             | Observing Template          | Science Target      |
| :---------------- | :-------------------------- | :------------------ |
| NIRCam            | NIRCam Imaging              | (1) J1211-0118      |
| NIRSPec IFU       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (2) J0235-0532      |
| NIRCam            | NIRCam Imaging              | (2) J0235-0532      |
| NIRSPec IFU       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (4) J0217-0208      |
| NIRCam            | NIRCam Imaging              | (4) J0217-0208      |
| NIRCam            | NIRCam Imaging              | (4) J0217-0208      |
| NIRSPec IFU       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (5) SDF-LBG-ID34    |
| NIRCam            | NIRCam Imaging              | (5) SDF-LBG-ID34    |
| NIRSPec IFU       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (3) RXC-J2248-ID3   |
| NIRCam            | NIRCam Imaging              | (3) RXC-J2248-ID3   |
| NIRSPec IFU       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (6) COS-2987030247  |
| NIRCam            | NIRCam Imaging              | (6) COS-2987030247  |
| NIRCam            | NIRCam Imaging              | (7) COS-3018555981  |
| NIRSPec           | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (11) SXDF-NB1006-2  |
| NIRCam            | NIRCam Imaging              | (11) SXDF-NB1006-2  |
| NIRCam            | NIRCam Imaging              | (10) B14-65666      |
| NIRSPec           | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (8) BDF-3299        |
| NIRCam            | NIRCam Imaging              | (8) BDF-3299        |
| NIRSPec           | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (12) A2744-YD4      |
| NIRSPEC           | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (9) A1689-ZD1       |
| NIRCam            | NIRCam Imaging              | (9) A1689-ZD1       |
| NIRCam            | NIRCam Imaging              | (8) BDF-3299        |

---

## ABSTRACT

Despite large efforts, the nature of the sources that reionize the universe is still unknown. Imaging surveys have concluded that galaxies are detected as increasingly strong [OIII]-line emitters at high redshifts. Recent studies argue that extreme [OIII] emitters (EW[OIII]5007Å>1000Å) at redshifts above 6 should be common, and be responsible for the reionization of the universe. However, their physical properties, especially Lyman continuum emissivity, are not firmly established yet. We here propose a set of NIRCam imaging and NIRSpec integral-field spectroscopy for a complete sample of LAEs/LBGs at redshifts above 6 identified as [OIII]88um emitters with ALMA. These data will establish i) the age and mass of the stellar population, ii) the structure of the stellar population and ionized gas nebula, iii) the physical conditions, kinematics and ionization status of the ISM, and iv) the LyC escape fraction. The combinations of JWST's deep and high-angular resolution multi-wavelength imaging and spectroscopy, in conjunction with ancillary ALMA data, will provide key information on the early stellar mass and galaxy assembly in the EoR, and the relevance of [OIII]88um emitters in the reionization of the universe.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The goal of this proposal is to observe with NIRCam imaging and NIRSpec integral-field spectroscopy (IFS) a complete sample of [OIII]88um emitters detected with ALMA at redshift above 6. The number of sources are twelve, and the sample has been selected from all ALMA literatures and in conjunction with unpublished objects from the ALMA archive.

The observational program is divided in two main observations:

1) NIRCam imaging uses a set of six filters to observe the rest-frame UV-to-optical emission of each [OIII]88um emitter. Three NIRCam imaging observations are proposed per source. The short wavelength channel uses filters F115W, F150W, and F200W for all sources covering the rest-frame UV emission. The selection of filters in the long wavelength (LW) channel depends on the redshift of each source. Sources with redshifts, 6.03<z<6.31, use filters F250M, F300M, and F444W. Sources with redshifts z~6.8 use filters F250M, F335M, and F444W. Sources with redshift z~7.15 use F277W, F356W, and F444W. LW channel filters have been specially selected to sample the Balmer break and the optical continuum plus bright line (Hb+[OIII] and/or Ha) emission. NIRCam observations use SUBARRAY SUB400P of module B, and standard subpixel dither pather with 4 positions. The readout modes SHALLOW4, MEDIUM8, and DEEP8 are selected depending on the final exposure time of each observation. Source A2744-YD4 is not included in the NIRCam observations because it is covered by GTO programs.

2) NIRSpec IFS uses filter F290LP and gratings G395H or G395M to cover the main optical emission lines such as [OII]3727, Hb, [OIII]4959/5007, Ha, [NII]6548/6584, and [SII]6717/6731 that are redshifted into the wavelength range, 2.87-5.27um. In sources with redshifts ~7.15, the grating configuration G395M is requested instead of G395H beacuse the Hbeta+[OIII]4959,5007 lines fall in the gap between the detectors for G395H. A medium size cycling dither pattern with four positions is used in each observation, together with a NRSIRS2RAPID readout mode. The Leakcal is not requested in this observations (see special requirements), but a position angles have been defined in some sources to minimize the number of bright sources on the NIRSpec SMA. COS-3018555981 and B14-65666 sources are not included in the NIRSpec observations because they are covered by GTO programs.

---