---
id: 1854
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Melissa McClure"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "17.7"
program_title: "It's Complicated: Disentangling the Formation Pathways of Complex Organic Molecules from Molecular Clouds to Comets."
type: "GO"
---
# 1854 - It's Complicated: Disentangling the Formation Pathways of Complex Organic Molecules from Molecular Clouds to Comets.
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1854
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                        | Observing Template               | Science Target                     |
| :--------------------------- | :------------------------------- | :--------------------------------- |
| HOPS68                       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) HOPS68-THERM                   |
| HOPS68-SKY                   | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (8) HOPS68-THERM-SKY               |
| HH26IRS                      | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) HH26IRS-THERM                  |
| HH26IRS-SKY                  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (9) HH26IRS-THERM-SKY              |
| 2MASSJ17112317-pstar-COMS    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (6) 2MASSJ17112317-COMS            |
| 2MASSJ17112317-pstar-COMS-SKY| MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (10) 2MASSJ17112317-COMS-SKY       |
| IRAS15398-pstar-COMS         | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (7) IRAS-15398-3359-COMS           |
| IRAS15398-pstar-COMS-SKY     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (11) IRAS-15398-3359-COMS-SKY      |
| CK2-BG                       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) CK-2-BG                        |
| CK2-BG-SKY                   | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (13) CK-2-BG-SKY                   |
| 2MASS-J18285266-BG           | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (12) 2MASS-J18285266-BG            |
| 2MASS-J18285266-BG-SKY       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (14) 2MASS-J18285266-BG-SKY        |
| HH26IRS                      | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy         | (16) HH26IRS-THERM-NS              |
| HOPS68                       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy         | (15) HOPS68-THERM-NS               |
| 2MASSJ17112317-pstar-COMS    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy         | (18) 2MASSJ17112317-COMS-NS        |
| IRAS15398-pstar-COMS         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy         | (19) IRAS-15398-3359-COMS-NS       |
| 2MASS-J18285266-BG           | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy         | (20) 2MASS-J18285266-BG-NS         |

## ABSTRACT

Complex organic molecules (COMs), the chemical building blocks from which pre-biotic molecules can arise, must form on icy dust grains within cold molecular clouds, where their gas-phase sublimation products have been extensively studied with millimeter telescopes. "Non-energetically" processed cloud COMs may be thermally and energetically reprocessed within protostellar envelopes, either further increasing their complexity or potentially destroying them before they enter the comet-forming regions of protoplanetary disks. However, to date no COMs more complex than methanol have been conclusively detected in the solid state.

We propose to test whether energetic reprocessing COMs during the protostellar stage of star formation substantially enhances the ice chemical complexity over that of cold molecular cores by obtaining R~2700-3200 spectra from 3-15um along six lines of sight to ice-rich regions characterized by non-energetic, thermal, and energetic ice processing. These spectra will reveal and disentangle overlapping signatures of >4 specific COM species (acetaldehyde, ethanol, dimethyl ether, and methyl formate), which are suggested by previous 5-sigma absorption features at 3-7% of the continuum near 7.2um with Spitzer, guaranteeing a robust detection of the separate features. If the complexity of COMs is already high enough within our non-energetic targets, then it means that every star system formed from those clouds could come pre-seeded with the partially assembled ingredients for life. If we still detect COMs in the highly energetically processed targets, then we can gauge how much and what variety of species survive the journey from cloud to comet-forming disk.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

In order to detect and disentangle the signatures of COMs at 1-3% of the local continuum in these sources, we need the spectral resolution of the NIRSpec IFU (G395H, R~2700) and MIRI MRS (R~2700-3300) modes at high S/N. In order to obtain the correct baseline over the 3.4$\mu$m COMs region, we need to cover the blue wing of the 3$\mu$m water ice feature using NIRSpec IFU G235H. Since these are point sources and we are using the IFUs, JWST's blind pointing accuracy is sufficient, and we do not need target acquisition for either mode. The groups/integrations of both modes are chosen to obtain a S/N of 300 per spaxel in order to detect COMs down to 1% of the local continuum at 3sigma.

**NIRSpec IFU**
We dither with a 4-position cycling pattern, in case there is any extended emission from an outflow to keep as bonus science. There will be sufficient blank sky around the targets for sky subtraction, and we can also use the background simultaneously observed through the fixed slits during the IFU observation. In Aladdin, the regions surrounding the two protostars in Orion have bright stars in the field that could leak through the MSA failed open shutters, so we obtain a leakcal at each dither for those NIRSpec observations.

**MIRI**
We use a 4-position dither pattern and use a FAST readout to minimize overheads. We will also obtain a dedicated sky background for each MIRI observation. We take off-source simultaneous imaging in three filters to confirm the pointing of these observations and maximize bonus-science from any serendipitously observed sources.