---
id: 1869
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Daniel Schaerer"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "73.5"
program_title: "LyC22 - Deep Spectroscopic Insights on Star-forming Galaxies 2.2 Gyr after the Big Bang"
type: "GO"
---
# 1869 - LyC22 - Deep Spectroscopic Insights on Star-forming Galaxies 2.2 Gyr after the Big Bang
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1869
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
1.  **List of the Labels, the corresponding Observing Template and the Science Targets:**

    | Label                        | Observing Template                | Science Target                         |
    | :--------------------------- | :-------------------------------- | :------------------------------------- |
    | Wp A v8 new                  | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy  | (12) msa table v4 header cleaned       |
    | P140 off                     | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy  | (7) LyC22_APTcat all v3                |
    | SSA22 2nd v1                 | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy  | (10) LyC22-SSA22visit2 APTcat v4       |
    | WpPA0_pre_imag               | NIRCam Imaging                    | (5) JWSTLYC-WPAPTCAT-COPY              |
    | SSA22PA25_pre_imag           | NIRCam Imaging                    | (3) JWSTLYC-SSA22APTCAT-COPY           |
    | SSA22PA10_pre_imag           | NIRCam Imaging                    | (4) JWSTLYC-SSA22APTCAT-COPY-1         |
    | NEW visit12 v9               | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy  | (8) LyC22_APTcat_all_v7_VISIT_12       |

## ABSTRACT
    We propose the LyC22 survey, a reference survey at z~3, to provide deep rest-optical spectra of Lyman continuum (LyC) emitting galaxies and comparison samples at 2.2 Gyr after the Big Bang.

    The proposed NIRSpec observations will provide a full spectral coverage over ~2800-6800 Ang rest-frame, including the major indicators of LyC escape, which have recently been established from studies at low-z. The full suite of faint optical emission lines will be used to test the indirect LyC indicators, determine ISM properties (density, temperature, abundances), and constrain the ionizing radiation field of LyC emitters, LyC non-emitters, and other star-forming galaxies at z~3. The observations will also allow us to examine a possible redshift evolution of these properties.

    Such a reference survey is uniquely possible at z~3, where the largest number of LyC emitters beyond z~0.4 is currently known. It is also the closest one can get to the epoch of reionization and obtain precision measurements of the LyC, the far-UV stellar and interstellar - already secured - and nebular spectra of the same galaxies with JWST. Such data are essential to obtain a consistent picture of stellar populations, the UV radiation field, abundances, and ISM properties of galaxies. Most importantly, understanding indirect LyC indicators at high-z is crucial since direct LyC detections are fundamentally not possible in the epoch of reionization.

    The LyC22 survey targets two fields selected from major high-z Lyman continuum surveys undertaken with Keck, Subaru and HST. It will obtain more than 200 deep spectra of z~3 star-forming galaxies, including 29 with known LyC emission or firm upper limits.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION
    We request JWST/NIRSpec observations of a large sample of z~3 star-forming galaxies targeting more than 200 sources in total, including 29 LyC emitters and non-emitters, in the SSA22 and Westphal fields with 3 MSA pointings (1 in Westphal and 2 in SSA22). Observations will be done in MSA mode with gratings/filters G140M/F100LP and G235M/F170LP, providing a full spectral coverage from 0.97um to 3.17um with a power resolution R~1000, to detect emission lines of H, He, O, N, Mg, S, and others, in the range between Mg II 2800A and [SII]6731A.

    For each source we assign a 3-shutter slitlet. The 3 MSA pointings have sufficient reference stars in the NIRSpec field of view for the MSA Target Acquisition (MSATA). The observing strategy for the MSA currently consists of 12 integrations per setup and pointing (i.e., 9.6h exposure x grating x pointing) with 32 Groups each with the NRSIRS2RAPID readout mode. A dither pattern 3-Shutter Nod will be used (0.5" in the spatial direction).