---
id: 1871
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: John Chisholm"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "22.2"
program_title: "The First Observations of the Ionizing Luminosity of Galaxies within the Epoch of Reionization"
type: "GO"
---
# 1871 - The First Observations of the Ionizing Luminosity of Galaxies within the Epoch of Reionization
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1871
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label          | Observing Template                | Science Target                  |
| :------------- | :-------------------------------- | :------------------------------ |
| Final Setting  | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy  | (3) SUPER-SAMPLE-W-STANDARDS  |

---

## ABSTRACT

The first galaxies changed cosmic history by emitting sufficient ionizing photons to ionize all the gas between galaxies. This cosmic reionization changed the thermal history of intergalactic gas, quenched early star formation, and set the seeds of the large-scale structure in the present universe.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Here we propose one NIRSpec MOS configuration of a well-studied field of high-redshift galaxies within GOODS-N. We use a catalog of spectroscopic and photometric redshifts to prepare the MSA configuration. We center the proposed pointing on a single bright galaxy and weight the catalog based off of the presence of spectroscopic redshifts. We utilize the 3-shutter setup and will nod between each shutter to subtract the background. We will observe in both the G235H grating, to observe Mg II, and the G395H grating to observe the [O II], H-gamma, H-beta, and [O III] emission lines. The H-gratings will test optical depth effects of the resonant Mg II transition by determining the Mg II velocity offset from the other Balmer emisison lines.

We determine the coordinates of all objects using GAIA matched HST photometry measured on the same astrometric frame. We find reference stars by using the Skelton et al. 2014 catalog and predicting the JWST magnitudes using SED fitting of the HST photometry. 2 reference stars are included on the MSA design to aid in flux calibration of the data. We find an MSA pointing with more than 5 reference stars that includes the Mg II and [O III] emission line flux from our highest priority sources. We then do a fine sampling (0.01"x0.01") of the area around this coordinate to find the optimal number of spectroscopically confirmed and photometric candidates.

We determine the required exposure times from SED fits to the HST and Spitzer data and make conservative lower estimates for the minimum equivalent widths of our brightest sources. We estimate that we will have to detect Mg II with flux levels of 3 x 10^-19 erg/s/cm^-2 integrated across the line at the 5 sigma significance in the G235H grating and H-gamma for our faintest sources with fluxes of 3 x 10^-19 erg/s/cm^-2 at the 3 sigma significance in the G395H grating. We assume line widths of 100 km/s.

We use the JWST ETC to determine the required exposure times using the NRSIR2 readout patterns, which is recommend for long observations to reduce data volumes. We assume that we will nod between each exposure and use the maximum number of 20 groups per integration to determine that we require 12 integrations per exposure with the G235H grating and 2 integrations per exposure with the G395H grating. After running smart accounting, APT suggests that this will take 22.2 total hours of charged time. We will require one confirmation image after the target acquisition and MSA configuration. We use the JWST ETC to determine that the 26 magnitude sources will be detected in 450 s of total integration time at the 10 sigma significance using the NRSIR2RAPID readout. This requires 1 integration of 30 groups.