---
id: 1874
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRISS/SOSS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Stuart Littlefair  Co-PIs: Gregg Hallinan and John Pineda"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "5.5"
program_title: "JWST Spectrophotometry of Brown Dwarf Pulsars"
type: "GO"
---
# 1874 - JWST Spectrophotometry of Brown Dwarf Pulsars
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1874
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label              | Observing Template                           | Science Target     |
| :----------------- | :------------------------------------------- | :----------------- |
| NIRISS Full Orbit  | NIRISS Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy   | (1) LSRJ1835+3259  |

## ABSTRACT

Our understanding of magnetic activity in low-mass stars and brown dwarfs was revolutionised by the discovery of brown dwarf "pulsars", with pulsed radio emission caused by massively scaled-up analogs of Jupiter's aurorae. These discoveries showed that the transition to planet-like magnetospheres occurs at the end of the stellar main sequence. The brown dwarf pulsars all show optical/NIR variability. It is claimed that this is causally linked to the radio emission and probably caused by the impact of auroral electrons on the brown dwarf atmosphere. These auroral electrons may therefore have a profound impact on the atmosphere; altering the opacity, providing local heating, destroying dust clouds and triggering pre-biotic chemistry in the brown dwarfs. Since aurora are expected on exoplanets, similar effects may be in play. The claim that the radio aurora cause the optical/NIR variability in brown dwarf pulsars is yet to be established. In particular, a model that claims elevayed H- opacity is the driver needs to be rigorously tested. Here we propose JWST spectrophotometry of a benchmark brown dwarf pulsar that we will use to understand the mechanism by which auroral electrons induce optical/NIR variability.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

APT to obtain a time-series of spectra of LSR J1835+3259 with NIRISS/SOSS, with the aim of creating lightcurves for each spectral bin and measuring the spectrum of the surface feature causing the variabilty.