---
id: 1879
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Mirko Curti"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "54.2"
program_title: "Opening the Era of Direct Metallicity Measurements in High Redshift Galaxies"
type: "GO"
---
# 1879 - Opening the Era of Direct Metallicity Measurements in High Redshift Galaxies
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1879
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                                   | Observing Template                | Science Target          |
| :-------------------------------------- | :-------------------------------- | :---------------------- |
| COSMOS_final_APA_wgts_obs7_replan_F | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (28) cosmos_zsel_final |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose to obtain "direct", electron temperature (Te)-based metallicity measurements at the cosmic noon (1.6<z<3) by means of deep (40 hours on source) observations with the NIRSpec Micro-shutter assembly (MSA) of a sample of ~60 galaxies within the COSMOS field, aimed at detecting the elusive [O III]4363 and [S II]4069 auroral lines. The leap in sensitivity provided by JWST compared to 10-meters class ground-based telescopes will finally open the era of systematic, unbiased detections of metallicity-sensitive auroral lines at high redshift, representing an unprecedented improvement over currently available datasets. This measurements will provide the key to break many of the degeneracies afflicting the physical interpretation of high redshift galaxy spectra. By simultaneously targeting auroral and strong nebular lines (i.e. [O II]3727, [O III]5007, [N II]6585, [S II]6718,32), we will be able to derive accurate calibrations for strong-line metallicity diagnostics. Calibrations tailored to the high-redshift Universe are necessary to correctly interpret the cosmic evolution of metallicity scaling relations, as probed by current and future surveys. Our exceptionally deep spectroscopy will also allow the study of other weak spectroscopic features, including broad wings in high S/N, high spectral resolution nebular line profiles tracing galactic winds, and detailed studies of the attenuation law by using multiple Balmer lines (Ha, Hbeta, Hgamma, Hdelta).

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Our programme is primarily aimed at detecting the [O III]4363 and [S II]4069 auroral lines in a sample of ~ 60 galaxies at redshift 1.6<z<3 within the COSMOS field, with the NIRSpec MSA in MOS mode. Deep (~36 hours on source) integrations in the G140M/F100LP filter are required to obtain such detections with SNR >= 3 in all of our targets. Complementary, shallower observations (~6.5 hours on source) in the G235H/F170LP filter are required to cover the full set of nebular emission lines of interest for the entire target redshift range (e.g. [O II]3727,[O III]5007, Hbeta, Ha, [N II]6584, [S II]6718,32). Considering 42 groups per integration and 1 integration per exposure, with the NRSIRS2 readout pattern a total of 42 exposures are required to complete the total integration time in G140M/F100LP. These are achieved with a 3-shutter slitlets nodding, replicated 14 times. In the G235H/F170LP, ~6.5 hours of integration are achieved combining 26 groups (1 integration) within one exposure, with the 3-shutter slitlets nodding replicated 4 times for a total of 12 exposures.