---
id: 1893
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Stefano Carniani"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "21.3"
program_title: "Galaxy Assembly at z > 6: Unraveling the Origin of the Spatial Offset between the UV and FIR Emission"
type: "GO"
---
# 1893 - Galaxy Assembly at z > 6: Unraveling the Origin of the Spatial Offset between the UV and FIR Emission
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1893
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label      | Observing Template    | Science Target          |
| :--------- | :-------------------- | :---------------------- |
| target     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) BDF3299             |
| background | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (4) BDF3299-BACKGROUND  |
| target     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (2) COSMOS24108         |
| background | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (5) COSMOS24108-BACKGROUND |
| target     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (3) A2744-YD4           |
| background | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (6) A2744-YD4-BACKGROUND |

---

## ABSTRACT

Exploring galaxies in the first Gyr of the Universe, at z>6, is the key to understanding the galaxy assembly process. For many galaxies at z>6, ALMA observations revealed that the far-infrared (FIR) [CII] and [OIII] lines are completely consistent with systemic redshift of the galaxies, but spatially offset by several kpc from the rest-frame UV region. The physical origin of these spatial offsets is still debated and depends mainly on the galaxy and interstellar medium (ISM) properties. We therefore propose JWST/NIRSpec observations in IFU mode to obtain spatially resolved spectra of three star-forming galaxies at z=6.6-8.2. The selected targets display the clearest spatial offsets between the rest-frame UV and the FIR lines among all high-z star-forming galaxies observed with ALMA so far, which makes them a unique sample for understanding the nature of this displacement. Our proposed NIRSpec observations are designed to obtain an accurate measurement of the spectral energy distribution in the rest-frame UV and optical band at the location of both FIR line emission and UV regions. This will allow us to both investigate the properties of the ISM (gas metallicity, ionisation parameter, dust obscuration) and unveil the possible presence of satellite galaxies associated with the displaced FIR emission, thus providing key constraints to galaxy assembling models at the re-ionisation epoch.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The proposed observations aim at mapping the continuum emission and optical nebular lines in three z>6.6 galaxies (COSMOS24018, BDF3299, and A2744-YD4) that show evidence of spatial offsets between rest-frame UV and FIR emission,
Observations will be performed with configuration grating/filters PRISM/CLEAR. This choice enables the detection of the bright nebular lines and continuum emission between 0.6um and 5.2um.
We will not perform Target Acquisition, since the absolute JWST pointing accuracy of 0.1arcsec is more than sufficient given the size of our targets.