---
id: 1897
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU  MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Nathan Roth"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "5.5"
program_title: "Pushing the Envelope of the JWST Discovery Space: Measuring the Insoluble Organic Matter (IOM) and Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbon (PAH) Content of Comet 9P/Tempel 1"
type: "GO"
---
# 1897 - Pushing the Envelope of the JWST Discovery Space: Measuring the Insoluble Organic Matter (IOM) and Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbon (PAH) Content of Comet 9P/Tempel 1
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1897
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
**1. List of Labels, Corresponding Observing Template, and Science Targets**

| Folder Observation | Label                       | Observing Template               | Science Target       |
|--------------------|-----------------------------|----------------------------------|----------------------|
| NIRSPEC IFU        |                             |                                  |                      |
| 1                  | NIRSPEC IFU                 | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy         | (1) 81P              |
| 2                  | NIRSPEC IFU Background      | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy         | (2) 81P-BACKGROUND   |
| MIRI IFU           |                             |                                  |                      |
| 3                  | MIRI IFUs                   | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) 81P              |
| 4                  | MIRI IFU Backgrounds        | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) 81P-BACKGROUND   |

---

## ABSTRACT

Comets are primitive remnants of solar system formation, cryogenically “preserved” in the outer solar system for the last 4.5 Gyr and retaining a record of the volatile and refractory material incorporated into their nuclei from the protosolar nebula. Systematically characterizing the composition of comets is necessary to understand the formation and evolution of the solar system, the presence of life on Earth, and the development of other young planetary systems. This program will measure the insoluble organic matter (IOM) and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon (PAH) content of 9P in its inner coma, thereby providing clues to the heritage and potential processing of its refractory organics. This study can only be performed with JWST owing to its sensitivity to faint extended emission, its spectral resolving power, and complete spectral coverage of the near- and mid-infrared. Discerning the nature of cometary refractory organics will directly address the Planetary Science objective of NASA's 2020-2024 Vision for Scientific Excellence: advance scientific knowledge of the origin and history of the solar system and the potential for life elsewhere. This JWST spectroscopic study addresses fundamental questions in our understanding of the refractory organics in cometary material and the formation of the solar system. It affords the first opportunity to sample the complete infrared spectrum of cometary refractory organics, and represents a chance to test the limits of the JWST discovery space that complements cometary missions' in situ and sample analyses, thereby improving our understanding of the origins and evolution of the solar system.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The proposed work will generate spectral-spatial data cubes spanning 2.8 - 28 microns. These measurements will characterize the insoluble organic matter (IOM) and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon (PAH) content of comet 9P/Tempel 1 during its 2022 perihelion passage. NIRSPEC IFU (G395H/F290LP) will sample features from 3 - 3.5 um diagnostic of IOM and PAHs, while simultaneously constraining production of H2O and trace organics (C2H6, CH3OH, CH4) that emit at nearby wavelengths. MIRI IFU (all channels/sub-bands) will sample IOM bonds including carbonyl (C=O), carboxylic acid (COO-) and C=C skeletal modes and will serve as a powerful tracer of PAHs. A four-point dither was used with the extended source flag. Extended emission from the coma will fill the NIRSpec and MIRI IFU FOVs, requiring dedicated off-target background observations. TA will not be used for this extended, moving target. The JPL Horizons ephemerides are expected to be of high astrometric accuracy. Observations are constrained to windows within the JWST FoR for which 9P/Tempel 1 is within 2 au of the Sun to maintain sufficient comet brightness.