---
id: 1902
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Jens Kammerer  Co-PIs: Laurent Pueyo and Anand Sivaramakrishnan"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 4.3
program_title: "High Resolution, High Contrast Kernel Phase Imaging with NIRCam"
type: "GO, Calibration"
---
# 1902 - High Resolution, High Contrast Kernel Phase Imaging with NIRCam
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1902
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :---- | :----------------- | :------------- |
| SCI   | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) HD-136164  |
| CAL   | NIRCam Imaging     | (2) HD-135067  |

---

## ABSTRACT
JWST offers excellent sensitivity, but its mirror size and therefore its angular resolution are constrained by the limited space in the Ariane V payload fairing. For this reason, super-resolution imaging is of particular interest to JWST and an aperture mask has been installed for this purpose inside the NIRISS instrument. In the past few years, kernel phase interferometry has been developed as a viable advancement to aperture masking. Kernel phase is a post-processing technique for full pupil images that achieves similar resolution than aperture masking (down to 0.5 lambda/D) and is particularly suitable for space-borne telescopes. Since kernel phase does not need a physical mask that blocks ~85% of the light to be placed in the pupil plane, it achieves higher throughput and therefore higher efficiency. Here, we propose to calibrate the kernel phase technique for the NIRCam instrument, since the impact of an increased angular resolution will be most powerful at the shortest wavelengths. Kernel phase interferometry will expand the parameter space accessible by JWST and give rise to high-contrast, high-resolution imaging such as the directy detection of forming giant planets or imaging of circumstellar outflows and nebulosities.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION
Observations of a benchmark target for kernel phase post-processing analysis. The selected target is HIP 75056 A, which has a 20-30 Jupiter masses brown dwarf companion at an angular separation of ~125 mas.

NIRCam dual-band high-contrast imaging in the F164N+F323N, F187N+F405N, and F212N+F470N filter pairs is performed in order to obtain a broad spectral coverage. The companion will be detected at 0.8-3 lambda/D (depending on the wavelength) with the kernel phase technique. This will enable us to develop the tools required for a kernel phase analysis of NIRCam data in general and to derive detection limits for this technique.

Similar observations of a PSF reference (HD 135067) will be performed. This will enable us to investigate the PSF stability of JWST and to determine the best possible calibration strategy for the kernel phase technique.

The requested total time including overheads amounts to 4.26 hours. All observations will be done with the small SUB64P subarray and RAPID readout mode in order to avoid the short wavelength detector to saturate.

As is required for calibration GO proposals, we checked with the help desk for approval (ticket #INC0161989). We were informed that no planned commissioning or calibration activities (by either the NIRCam nor NIRISS instrument teams) would acquire data similar to what we propose here, and approval was granted.