---
id: 1906
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Alessio Caratti o Garatti  Co-PIs: Jochen Eisloeffel and Bringfried Stecklum"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "24.9"
program_title: "NAOMY-J: NIR-dark Accretion Outbursts from Massive Young Stellar Objects with JWST"
type: "GO, Non-Disruptive ToO"
---
# 1906 - NAOMY-J: NIR-dark Accretion Outbursts from Massive Young Stellar Objects with JWST
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1906
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                                   | Observing Template                  | Science Target                     |
| :-------------------------------------- | :---------------------------------- | :--------------------------------- |
| NIRSPEC-MYSO-OUTBURST-1st-epoch         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy            | (3) IRAS-18134-1942                |
| MIRI-MRS-MYSO-OUTBURST-1st-epoch        | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (5) IRAS-18134-1942-MIRI           |
| MIRI-BACKGROUND-1st-epoch               | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) BACKGROUND_MIRI_IRAS18134-1942 |
| NIRSPEC-MYSO-OUTBURST-2nd-epoch         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy            | (3) IRAS-18134-1942                |
| MIRI-MRS-MYSO-OUTBURST-2nd-epoch        | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (5) IRAS-18134-1942-MIRI           |
| MIRI-BACKGROUND-2nd-epoch               | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) BACKGROUND_MIRI_IRAS18134-1942 |
| NIRSPEC-MYSO-OUTBURST-3rd-epoch         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy            | (3) IRAS-18134-1942                |
| MIRI-MRS-MYSO-OUTBURST-3rd-epoch        | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (5) IRAS-18134-1942-MIRI           |
| MIRI-BACKGROUND-3rd-epoch               | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) BACKGROUND_MIRI_IRAS18134-1942 |
| NIRSPEC-MYSO-OUTBURST-4th-epoch         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy            | (3) IRAS-18134-1942                |
| MIRI-MRS-MYSO-OUTBURST-4th-epoch        | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (5) IRAS-18134-1942-MIRI           |
| MIRI-BACKGROUND-4th-epoch               | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) BACKGROUND_MIRI_IRAS18134-1942 |

## ABSTRACT

A wealth of new theoretical and observational evidence supports now the idea that episodic accretion is a fundamental and common phenomenon across mass and time in star formation. In particular, the most recent discovery and follow-up of four accretion bursts from massive young stellar objects (MYSOs) have been key to link low- and high-mass star-formation mechanisms to the common ground of disk-mediated accretion. Two of the events (dubbed NIR-dark accretion bursts) from early stage and highly embedded MYSOs could not be detected below 10 micron, hampering our ability to infer the key accretion parameters of these bursts. Only JWST gives us the unique combination of spatial resolution (to obtain the source spectral energy distribution - SED - clean from extended emission and source multiplicity, typical of massive star forming regions) and sensitivity in the thermal IR for line spectroscopy of these faint IR massive protostars. We propose a ToO multi-epoch program with NIRSpec and MIRI-MRS to study and follow-up the next NIR-dark accretion burst in the 3-28 micron regime. For the first time, we will catch an accretion burst from an early-stage MYSO during its rise, heralded by methanol maser flares. We will derive its key accretion parameters (rising time, duration, released energy, strength, accreted mass, accretion luminosity and mass accretion rate), its origin, as well as its impact on the source and its surrounding environment (chemistry, ice/gas state of disk/envelope, ejection burst). This ToO will finally prove the nature of accretion bursts from early-stage MYSOs, conclusively linking low- and high-mass star-formation mechanisms across mass and time.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We aim at observing and tracking the full evolution of the next NIR-dark accretion burst from a massive young stellar object with NIRSpec in IFU mode and MIRI-MRS between 3 and 28 micron. This spectral range has a large set of different atomic and molecular species (both in gas and ice phase), that trace different processes (e. g., accretion, ejection, disk heating) and regions of the MYSO (inner and outer disk, outflow-cavities, envelope). The analysis of both spectral features and IR thermal continuum will allow us to derive, for the first time, the key properties of NIR-dark accretion bursts, follow-up their evolution and understand how the MYSO structure (protostar, disk, envelope, outflow) is affected and modified by the sudden release of energy.

We thus propose a multi-epoch ToO programme, that will be triggered if a NIR-dark accretion burst is detected by means of CH3OH maser flares and if the sensitivity criteria exposed in the proposal are met.

The outbursting MYSO will be observed using NIRSpec G395H/F290LP grism and the 4 channels and 3 sub-bands of MIRI-MRS. The spectral resolution will be in the range of 1500-3500 (i.e. 85-200 km/s).

For our calculations we adopt the pre-outburst, burst and post-burst SEDs of the G358.93-0.03 MM1 event, the faintest, farthest and weakest NIR-dark accretion burst discovered so far.
Integration times and observational settings have been determined to meet the following requirements.
i) Detection of the pre-burst continuum (with a SNR>/=5) at the shortest wavelength of 3 micron.
ii) Detection of the faintest accretion/ejection key lines (HI, H2 ro-vibrational lines, [NeII], [NeIII]) with a SNR>/=10 with both NIRspec and MIRI-MRS.
iii) Measuring the burst continuum with SNR>/=60-100 to properly detect the main ice/gas molecular and silicate-dust features with SNR>/=10.
iv) An upper limit constraint of SNR~600 to the 20-28 micron continuum to avoid saturation.

We set 2 integrations with 10 groups and 4-point dithering with NIRSpec for a total on-source exposure of ~1 hr for each of the four epochs. In case of crowded fields, leakage correction exposures (~0.5 hr) were added. For MIRI-MRS we set 3 integrations of 36 groups each and a 4-point dithering for a total on-source exposure of ~1 hr for each of the four epochs. An additional background exposure (900 s) was also foreseen. In total, the required science time to perform our program is 10.73 hrs, while the total charged time is 24.88 hrs (or 6.22 hrs per epoch). We stress that these settings will be refined before the triggering, depending on the source distance and brightness, as well as the crowdedness of the field.