---
id: 1908
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Eros Vanzella"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "24.5"
program_title: "Constraining the Nature of the First Stellar Complexes: Globular Cluster Precursors and Population III Stellar Clusters at z~6-7"
type: "GO"
---
# 1908 - Constraining the Nature of the First Stellar Complexes: Globular Cluster Precursors and Population III Stellar Clusters at z~6-7
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1908
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label      | Observing Template        | Science Target |
|:-----------|:--------------------------|:---------------|
| PopIII     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (5) POPIII     |
| satellite  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (6) D2         |
| D1T1       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (2) D1T1       |
| T3T4       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (4) T3T4       |
| T2         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (3) T2         |

---

## ABSTRACT

The observation, down to a few parsec scale, of individual Population III star-forming complexes and Globular Cluster Precursors (GCPs) and their interaction with the hosting galaxy and environment, necessarily requires strong gravitational lensing amplification. Moreover, the role of such low luminosity (M1500 > -16) sources on the ionization of the surrounding medium is a key factor in our understanding of the cosmic reionization. We propose JWST/NIRSpec-IFU mode to map two key targets (dubbed LYA and POPIII) amplified by the Hubble Frontier Field galaxy cluster MACS J0416, currently the modeled lens with the richest number of confirmed multiple images (>180).

LYA is a strong Ly-alpha emitter (rest-frame equivalent width, EW>200A) at z=6.149 in which at least 10 star-forming knots of (<)10-100 parsec sizes and intrinsic ultraviolet magnitudes m1500=29-33 are secured with VLT/MUSE and HST deep observations and recognized as the ionizing sources.

POPIII is a much fainter Ly-alpha arclet straddling the caustic at z=6.629 with a barely detected HST counterpart down to mag1500>~31 (observed), implying an intrinsic m1500>~35. The huge Ly-alpha EW of the Pop III arclet (>1000A rest-frame) suggests the presence of a metal-free star complex.

JWST will be a game-changer for the challenge of understanding the nature of such extremely faint and compact ionizing sources. We will blindly map, at tens of parsec scale, the key optical lines like [OIII]4959-5007 and H-alpha, and definitely identify the targets as GCPs, quantify their ionizing photon production efficiency in an unprecedented low-luminosity regime and rich environment at the tail end of the Cosmic Reionization epoch.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

**TARGETS:**
Target 1: we aim at observing a giant Lya arc at z=6.149 magnified by the galaxy cluster MACS J0416, surrounded by a group of spectroscopically confirmed star forming complexes with intrinsic magnitude and sizes in the range 29-33 and <13-100 parsec. Remarkably, some of them show the densest star-formation rate surface densities ever seen at these redshifts, and currently represent the best candidate globular cluster precursors in the reionization epoch.
Target 2: we aim at observing an “HST-dark” object at z=6.629 lying very close to the critical line with an observed(intrinsic) ultraviolet magnitude fainter than 31(35). The extremely low luminosity (M1500 ~ 11.9) and the very large rest-frame Ly-alpha equivalent width (EW>1000A) makes such an object of the most interesting of candidate Pop III star complex with 10^4 solar masses illuminating a HII region straddling the caustic.

**INSTRUMENTS:**
At the redshft of our targets, z=6.149 (Target 1) and z=6.629 (Target 2), the entire rest-frame optical region of the electromagnetic spectrum is redshifted at wavelengths accessible only with JWST. In particular, we will detect and spatially map with IFU the most prominent nebular emission lines like the Balmer (H-alpha, H-beta) and Oxygen ([OIII]4959-5007), all of them falling in the same grating G395H/F290LP (2.87-5.26um) for Target 1, while the Prism/CLEAR will capture the entire Ly-alpha -- H-alpha interval for Target 2. The H-alpha luminosity is a primary indicator of the star-formation rate that, combined with the ultraviolet size, will provide the star-formation rate surface density, strictly related to the gas surface density (from the Schmidt law), and never explored with such details at this redshift and low luminosities.

**MODES:**
We carefully calculated the expected S/N ratios by assuming both spatially compact and extended line scenarios. NIRSpec IFU with the grating G395H/F290LP is used for Target 1 and is the most suitable observing mode given the scientific objectives (see SJ ), while Prism/CLEAR will explore the HST-dark MUSE region (Ly-alpha emission without HST counterparts) surrounding the Ly-alpha arclet. In both cases, the IFU mode is perfect for a proper blind spatial mapping of the most relevant lines. We tune the number of groups after performing extensive calculations with the ETC, and set the NRSIRS2RAPID readout mode, which is suitable for faint objects and provide good temporal resolution for cosmic rays rejection. The Cycling dithering with the ``SMALL" option with 8 points is also adopted. Pointing #4 on Target 2 requires the grating Prism/CLEAR, in which the IFU mode is necessary to blindly accomodate in the field of view additional emission lines like H-alpha, H-beta (or metal lines), useful to probe the undelying object, currently undetected by HST ("HST-dark").