---
id: 1911
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Susan Mullally  Co-PI: Fergal Mullally"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 24.6
program_title: "A Search for the Giant Planets that Drive White Dwarf Accretion"
type: "GO"
---
# 1911 - A Search for the Giant Planets that Drive White Dwarf Accretion
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1911
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label     | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :-------- | :----------------- | :------------- |
| WD1620    | MIRI Imaging       | (3) WD1620-391 |
| WD1202    | MIRI Imaging       | (1) WD1202-232 |
| WD2105    | MIRI Imaging       | (2) WD2105-82  |
| WD2149+02 | MIRI Imaging       | (4) WD2149+02  |

## ABSTRACT

"We propose to use MIRI to search for planets around four white dwarf stars to test whether giant planets drive the mysterious metal pollution observed in the atmospheres of many white dwarf stars. Giant planets are believed to throw planetesimals into the white dwarf where they are torn apart and accreted onto the photosphere. The low planet-star contrast makes the planet light detectable in these systems without the use of a coronagraph. We will search for both resolved companions, and an infrared flux excess from unresolved companions. We chose the nearest (10--22 pc) and youngest (0.8--2.7 Gyr) targets to ensure that we probe down to sub-Jovian masses around these evolved stars. Unlike the one transiting candidate found by Vanderburg et al. (2020), any white dwarf planet we discover will likely have formed beyond the ice line and may be more representative of giant planets found in our own solar system. With our sample, if no planets are found, we will be able to all but rule-out the favored model for how the metals are accreting onto the white dwarf star. Conversely any planets we do find will open a window to studying exoplanets beyond the ice-line."

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

"This program plans to observe 4 white dwarf stars in four MIRI filters: F560W, F770W, F1500W and F2100W. The two blue bands (F560W and F770W) are short exposures that are intended to get good photometry of the white dwarf star. They will also be used to determine the color of any other bright sources near the white dwarf (within ~20") to rule out false positives from the direct imaging part of the program. The F1500W exposure is a long stare (1-4 hours) and intended to search for resolved, nearby companions to the white dwarf star. The white dwarf is dim enough compared to the planet at 15 microns, that this is NOT considered high contrast imaging. At our detection limit we expect the companion-star contrast to be 1:100 or better. The F2100W exposure will be used to gain good photometry of the white dwarf star, but is exposed for long enough to ensure a SNR of 55 on the white dwarf star. For all filters we request a FULL readout of the detector because we gained no improvement in SNR by limiting the readout and we do not know how far away the companion is from the nearby white dwarf star. Also other stars in the frame will help us measure a PSF. All observations use the default 4-point dither where the number of sets is determined by the length of the exposure.
As we are searching for dim companions, we set the requirement that the background be no larger than 20% above minimum for 3 of our targets and not above 10% for the fourth target. The 20% above minimum was set because it otherwise it severely limits the schedulability of the targets and for those targets we can tolerate a slightly higher level of background noise."