---
id: 1935
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRISS/SOSS  NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Eliza Kempton"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 10.9
program_title: "Unshrouding the Sub-Neptune Population: The Case of TOI-421b"
type: "GO"
---
# 1935 - Unshrouding the Sub-Neptune Population: The Case of TOI-421b
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1935
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label   | Observing Template                       | Science Target |
| :------ | :--------------------------------------- | :------------- |
| NIRISS  | NIRISS Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy | (3) TOI-421    |
| NIRSPEC | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series        | (3) TOI-421    |

## ABSTRACT

Sub-Neptunes, while ubiquitous in our galaxy, remain of uncertain disposition. The radius distribution of such planets indicates they have rocky cores with tenuous primordial H2-rich atmospheres, but their bulk densities admit the possibility of ice-rich compositions. Only atmospheric investigations can break degeneracies in bulk composition and address the fundamental nature of the sub-Neptune population. However, observations of sub-Neptunes have repeatedly returned featureless or muted transmission spectra that have provided us with little information about their atmospheres. It is strongly suspected that photochemical haze is to blame for the muted spectra. Such hazes are predicted to form over a limited temperature range — primarily below 850 K. The implication is that planets hotter than this cutoff temperature should be free of obscuring hazes and should present clear atmospheres that are ideal for atmospheric investigations. To that end, we propose to obtain the transmission spectrum of TOI-421b — the highest S/N sub-Neptune that is hot enough (Teq~1,000 K) to expect haze-free conditions. We will measure the transmission spectrum of this planet from 0.83 to 5 microns, allowing us to determine the abundances of multiple H/O/C-bearing molecules. Our results are expected to provide the first clear-atmosphere characterization of a sub-Neptune. We will robustly constrain the bulk composition of TOI-421b's atmosphere, test theories of aerosol formation, and provide valuable context for how to best use JWST for future investigations of the sub-Neptune population.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose NIRISS+SOSS and NIRSpec+G395M transit observations of the planet TOI-421b. The period of the planet is 5.20 days, and the duration of the transit is 1.12 hours. We nominally plan for time equal to the transit duration both before and after the transit, with an extra 0.5 hour before to also account for detector burn in. The observation is scheduled to start between 0 and 1 hour plus the transit duration before the transit to give a large enough timing window so as to not incur the scheduling penalty.

The NIRISS observations have to use the SUBSTRIP96 subarray for this bright target.
The NIRSpec observations can use the full 2048 BOTS subarray.
The NIRSpec target acquisition has to be done on a nearby star because the target is too bright.

We used the ExoCTK website to optimize the number of groups per integration to keep the max fluence below 75% of saturation. We determined the number of integrations to give 3.85 hour visit durations.

The ephemeris will need to be updated once the TESS Sector 32 data are released.