---
id: 1939
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Jessica Lu"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "16.5"
program_title: "The Galactic Center"
type: "GO"
---
# 1939 - The Galactic Center
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1939
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                       | Observing Template        | Science Target |
| :-------------------------- | :------------------------ | :------------- |
| Images                      | NIRCam Imaging            | (1) GALCEN     |
| Spectra                     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (1) GALCEN     |
| Spectra Repeat of Observation 2 | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (1) GALCEN     |
| Images                      | NIRCam Imaging            | (1) GALCEN     |
| Images                      | NIRCam Imaging            | (1) GALCEN     |

---

## ABSTRACT

Studies of the Galactic Center routinely deliver breakthrough discoveries. However, our picture is far from complete. Webb is uniquely poised to answer a number of remaining questions including: (1) How do stars form so close to the super-massive black hole (SMBH) and do they have an unusual initial mass function? (2) Are the old stars missing or have they been tidally stripped, making them faint and hard to detect? (3) How are binary systems, including those with compact objects, created, destroyed, and merged around a SMBH? and (4) Is there a cusp of dark matter and stellar mass black holes around the SMBH? To address these questions, we require a thorough and accurate census of the different populations of stars within the nuclear star cluster, including spectral types and 3D kinematics. We propose to obtain NIRCam imaging of the central 2' (4.8 pc) and NIRSpec IFU spectroscopy of the central 9" (0.36 pc) in order to study the nuclear star cluster and its co-evolution with the SMBH.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to obtain NIRCam imaging of the central 2' (4.8 pc) and NIRSpec IFU spectroscopy of the central 9" (0.36 pc) of our Galaxy in order to study the nuclear star cluster and its co-evolution with the supermassive black hole.

The NIRCam imaging includes 4 filters (F115W, F212N, F323N, F405N) to provide deep, precise photometry used for distinguishing young and old stars, constructing precise reddening maps and reddening laws, and measuring the structure, IMF, and star formation history of the old and young nuclear star clusters. The F212N images will repeated 3 times over cycle 1 to measure proper motions for stars down to K=20 at better than 0.5 mas/yr (20 km/s). The astrometry will be use to measure the positions, proper motions, accelerations, and orbits of stars around the supermassive black hole and to measure the astrometric wobble of stars in binary systems. The three epochs of F212N imaging should be spread over cycle 1.

The NIRSpec IFU spectroscopy uses the higher-resolution G235H grating in the F170LP filter to obtain spectra from 1.6 - 3.3 microns for a 3x3 mosaic at the Galactic Center. The spectra will be used to precisely identify young and old stars and measure their radial velocities and metallicities. These observations will be used to construct the IMF for different dynamical sub-groups, to confirm binary candidates identified from astrometry, and measure the structure, dynamics, and metallicity distribution of the nuclear star cluster.