---
id: 1947
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging  MIRI/MRS  NIRCam/Imaging  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Dan Milisavljevic"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "45.1"
program_title: "JWST Survey of the Prototypical Core-collapse Supernova Remnant Cassiopeia A"
type: "GO"
---
# 1947 - JWST Survey of the Prototypical Core-collapse Supernova Remnant Cassiopeia A
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1947
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                        | Observing Template               | Science Target                    |
| :--------------------------- | :------------------------------- | :-------------------------------- |
| MIRI Imaging Mosaic          | MIRI Imaging                     | (10) CASSIOPEIA-A-CENTER-MIRI     |
| MIRI Imaging Background      | MIRI Imaging                     | (3) BACKGROUND                    |
| MIRI IFU Center              | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (11) CASSIOPEIA-A-CENTER-IFU      |
| MIRI IFU Knot 1              | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) CASSIOPEIA-A-KNOT1            |
| MIRI IFU Knot 2              | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (8) CASSIOPEIA-A-KNOT2            |
| MIRI IFU Knot 3              | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (9) CASSIOPEIA-A-KNOT3            |
| MIRI IFU Background          | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (15) BACKGROUND-RETURN            |
| NIRSpec Knot 1               | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy         | (2) CASSIOPEIA-A-KNOT1            |
| NIRSpec Knot 2               | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy         | (8) CASSIOPEIA-A-KNOT2            |
| NIRSpec Knot 3               | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy         | (9) CASSIOPEIA-A-KNOT3            |
| NIRSpec Knot Bkg             | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy         | (15) BACKGROUND-RETURN            |
| NIRSpec Center               | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy  | (11) CASSIOPEIA-A-CENTER-IFU      |
| NIRCam imaging               | NIRCam Imaging                   | (1) CASSIOPEIA-A-CENTER           |
| MIRI Imaging additional 1    | MIRI Imaging                     | (12) CASSIOPEIA-A-1-RETURN        |
| MIRI Imaging addition al 2   | MIRI Imaging                     | (13) CASSIOPEIA-A-2-RETURN        |
| MIRI Imaging addition al 3   | MIRI Imaging                     | (14) CASSIOPEIA-A-3-RETURN        |
| MIRI Imaging additional background | MIRI Imaging                     | (15) BACKGROUND-RETURN            |

---

## ABSTRACT

Core-collapse supernovae (SNe) are among the most influential phenomena in the universe, and yet many key questions about their nature and explosive products remain unanswered. This uncertainty has broad implications for the formation and evolution of stellar populations, the metal enrichment of galaxies, and the origin of life. JWST opens new pathways to investigate SNe, and this proposal outlines an interdisciplinary science-enabling survey of the young SN remnant that provides the clearest access to the properties of a core-collapse SN: Cassiopeia A (Cas A). Three critical questions motivate a suite of observations made up of imaging mosaics covering the entire main shell and IFU spectroscopy of select representative locations: What is the total mass, relative chemical yield, and kinematic distribution of various components of the SN ejecta? How much ejecta is transformed into dust and how much of that dust survives passage through the reverse shock? What processes govern the formation and final fate of the remnant compact object? The requested observations exploit JWST's unique ability to 1) provide maps of shocked and un-shocked ejecta that can be directly compared to current SN models; 2) constrain the grain size distribution, clump size, and density contrast of shocked SN dust; and 3) peer deeply enough through high extinction to test hypotheses about the nature of Cas A's central compact object, which is regarded as a key object to understanding neutron star evolution models. The proposed program will serve as an invaluable resource for subsequent JWST cycles and will contribute to the legacy of prior NASA Great Observatories that have all observed Cas A.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

A suite of imaging mosaics with NIRCam + MIRI covering the entire main shell of the supernova remnant Cassiopeia A (Cas A) will be obtained. NIRSpec + MIRI MRS spectroscopy of four representative locations will also be obtained. Three locations will sample main shell ejecta and dust with NIRSpec IFU and MIRI MRS IFU. One "deep drilling" location near the center will sample unshocked ejecta with NIRSpec + long slit, and an extra-long MIRI MRS IFU observation. NIRSpec observations will all use the G395M disperser, and all MIRI MRS observations will span the full 5-28 micron range over multiple exposures. All IFU observations will be dithered.

NIRCam filters F162M, F356W, and F444W have been selected to map ejecta, dust, and CSM with emission lines of [Fe II], [Si I], and CO. Images from these filters will also be used to constrain emission from the CCO. MIRI filters F560W, F770W, F1000W, F1130W, F1280W, F1800W, F2100W, and F2550W have been selected to map ejecta and dust continuum for a variety of emission features. Mosaic configurations have been carefully selected to optimally cover the remnant's main shell, base of NE jet, and outlying ejecta + CSM.

In Cas A, knots move with proper motions upwards of 0.9 arcseconds per year and flicker on timescales of months (see Fesen+ 2011), and thus we require turnaround between imaging and spectroscopy to be within a single cycle. NIRSpec and MIRI IFU observations are to be obtained after NIRCam and MIRI imaging has been obtained. Precise coordinates of NIRSpec and MIRI MRS observations will be made from NIRCam and MIRI images. This requirement is reflected in an observational constraint that the imaging observations with MIRI and NIRCam should be carried out before the IFU observations of the fast moving knots in order for us to be able to modify the target coordinates if needed. We specified a timing window for this constraint of 60-180 days. The 60 days is an estimate of the time needed for the pipeline to process the imaging observations, for reduce the data, plus the time needed to schedule the observation after the updated APT file is submitted.

We do not require a dedicated spectral background observation for the CENTER-IFU target. We are only interested in line emission at this location (and not the continuum) and any lines associated with the remnant will be shifted in velocity from the background lines and easily identifiable. We will therefore only need to fit the underlying continuum to measure the line properties without the need for any off-remnant background.