---
id: 1952
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/GTS  MIRI/LRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Renyu Hu"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 15.4
program_title: "Determining the Atmospheric Composition of the Super-Earth 55 Cancri e"
type: "GO"
---
# 1952 - Determining the Atmospheric Composition of the Super-Earth 55 Cancri e
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1952
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                  | Observing Template             | Science Target  |
| :--------------------- | :----------------------------- | :-------------- |
| NIRCAM F444W Eclipse | NIRCam Grism Time Series       | (1) -RHO01-CNC |
| MIRI LRS Eclipse       | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) -RHO01-CNC |

---

## ABSTRACT

One of the primary inquiries of astronomy is to determine for small exoplanets (1) whether they have an atmosphere, and (2) what their atmospheres are made of. To date, we have answered the first question for only one planet that is rocky in composition and lacking an H2-dominated atmosphere (i.e., a super-Earth): 55 Cancri e. Here we propose to use JWST's spectral capabilities in the mid-infrared to answer the second question for this planet. Prior observations with Spitzer photometry showed that the planet must have either a thick volatile-rich atmosphere, or a molten lava surface shrouded by a mineral atmosphere while rotating at an asynchronous rate. The Spitzer measurements also ruled out H2O, CO, or CO2 as the main component of the atmosphere. The remaining possibility for the volatile-rich atmosphere are either an O2 atmosphere formed by the loss of hydrogen from a primordial water world, or an N2 atmosphere with varied abundances of CO2, CO, and HCN resulted from the accretion of rocky materials. The mineral atmosphere would otherwise be dominated by Na, O, K, Fe, and SiO. We request the JWST time to observe two secondary eclipses of 55 Cancri e, one with NIRCam using the F444W filter and the other with MIRI/LRS in the slitless mode. These observations will be able to distinguish the thick atmosphere scenario versus the mineral atmosphere scenario at high significance via spectral features of H2O, CO, CO2, and SiO. The proposed observations would provide the first direct detection of a non-H2-dominated atmosphere on an exoplanet and demonstrate JWST's unique capability to characterize super-Earths in thermal emission.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will acquire a thermal emission spectrum of the hot super-Earth 55 Cancri e using NIRCam and MIRI -- the former in grism time series mode with the F444W filter, the latter in low resolution slitless mode. The combination of the two instruments will allow us to measure the thermal emission spectrum from 3.8-12 micron at a resolution of R ~ 200.

Whenever possible, exposure parameters are chosen to maximize the observational efficiency while keeping all pixels below 80% saturation. For MIRI, it is not possible to keep all pixels below this limit. We thus use the parameters that minimize the number of saturated pixels. For both instruments, we perform target acquisition (TA) on the target itself.

As is standard with eclipse observations, we include an out-of-eclipse portion of the light curve. This is necessary to establish a baseline from which the eclipse depth can be determined and using which instrumental systematics can be modelled. We include 3.2 hours of baseline for the 1.6-hour eclipse, half of which is before the eclipse, and half of which is after. Additionally, since any timing constraint narrower than 1 hour is considered "tight" and incurs an 1-hour scheduling overhead penalty, we use a timing window of exactly 1 hour, centered 1.6+0.5 = 2.1 hours before the predicted start of eclipse. The extra baseline also gives the instruments time to stabilize, thus reducing systematics.