---
id: 1958
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Christian Rab  Co-PIs: Inga Kamp, Rens Waters, and Michael Migo Mueller"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 4.5
program_title: "Spectroscopy of the Circumplanetary Disk around the Young Planet-mass Companion CT Cha b"
type: "GO"
---
# 1958 - Spectroscopy of the Circumplanetary Disk around the Young Planet-mass Companion CT Cha b
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1958
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label              | Observing Template                  | Science Target      |
| :----------------- | :---------------------------------- | :------------------ |
| MIRI               | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) V-CT-CHA-B      |
| MIRI - Background  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) BACKGROUND      |

---

## ABSTRACT

Several planet-mass companions (PMCs) on wide-orbits have been imaged around young stars (1-10 Myr). Their estimated mass is just around the brown dwarf to giant planet transition (~13 Jupiter masses), which makes them especially interesting for both star and planet formation theories. Several formation scenarios exist, but none of them can explain all properties of the currently known PMCs. There are strong theoretical reasons to expect disks around PMCs, and indirect evidence for disks around PMCs from optical and near-infrared emission exists. However, attempts to detect the dust and gas emission of the disk directly have been unsuccessful. The high sensitivity of JWST MIRI will allow detecting disks with sizes smaller than one au, masses as low 1/10000 of a Jupiter mass and will provide first constraints on the solid and gas composition of disks around PMCs. We propose to observe the PMC CT Cha b with the MIRI spectrograph to detect the dust and gas emission (water lines) of its disk. Those results allow for a comparison to the composition of the primary disk of CT Cha, which is observed simultaneously, and to observations of protoplanetary disks, providing new constraints for possible differences in disk evolution. Those observations, together with forthcoming complementary ALMA observations, will put stringent limits on the mass and size of the companion's disk; quantities most relevant for PMC formation theories and spin-evolution studies. The proposed program will be a big step forward for our understanding of the mysterious nature of wide-orbit planet-mass companions and will serve as a pioneering study for future JWST surveys of PMCs.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We observe the disks around the wide-orbit planet-mass companion CT Cha b and its primary CT Cha with MIRI MRS. We use a standard setup for the MRS to cover the full available wavelength range.

The chosen target is the companion CT Cha b at ICRS coord.: 11 04 8.4400 -76 27 18.00. However, the primary ICRS coord.: 11 04 9.0009 -76 27 19.33 will be in the same FOV and is observed simultaneously. To secure that the primary is within the FOV, even at the shortest wavelengths (Channel 1), we request to point between the primary and companion with about 0.5 arcsec offset from the companion ICRS coord.: at 11 04 08.633 -76 27 18 249. This will be verified again prior to the observations.

Changes 10.08.2021 (after review)

We rechecked the possibility to provide an offset. However, we decided now to do include an offset as it is not required for the main science goal (to detect CT Cha b). Also the primary will still be on the FOV for several channels even without an offset.

We reduced the data excess from 12187.53 MB to 7358.11 MB by only using the SUB64 subarray in the simultaneous imaging. As switching of the simultaneous imaging does not have a significant effect anymore we like to still include this. This has no impact on the science case.

Changes 25.07.2022 (new recommendations)

It was recommended to add a dedicated background to science observations. We have done that now by adding new background observation and linking it as non-interruptible with the scientific observations. It was also recommended to do the background observations before the science observations, and we did that by assigning numbers 1 to the background and 2 to the science target.

As adding the background adds to the charged time, we removed the simultaneous imaging. With this configuration, the charged time increases from 4.6 to 4.86 hours, which is an increase of 5.6%. Hence we think a new approval by the Telescope Time Review Board is not required. Removing simultaneous imaging is not affecting our scientific goals.

We were also informed that the distortion solution would be updated in the next couple of weeks. However, we decided to not wait for that and go ahead with the proposal.

Due to the additional background the data data volume only increased slightly (by 500 MB) we assume that is not a problem.

We think the proposal as it is now should be ready to go.

Changes 04.08.2022 (new recommendations)

Used now 50 groups for the background but no Dither, as now recommended by the MIRI Team. This brings back the charged time to 4.8, which is an hence no approval by the TTRB is required.