---
id: 1959
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Will Rocha"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "7.2"
program_title: "Ice Chemical Complexity Toward the Ophiuchus Molecular Cloud"
type: "GO"
---
# 1959 - Ice Chemical Complexity Toward the Ophiuchus Molecular Cloud
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1959
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                     | Observing Template                    | Science Target                 |
| :------------------------ | :------------------------------------ | :----------------------------- |
| GSS30 MIRI                | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy   | (1) GSS-30                     |
| OphA BKG MIRI             | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy   | (7) OPHA-BKG                   |
| GY92 197 MIRI             | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy   | (2) GY92-197                   |
| CRBR2422.8-3423 MI RI     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy   | (4) CRBR-2422.8-3423           |
| WL17 MIRI                 | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy   | (5) WL-17                      |
| GY9291 MIRI               | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy   | (9) GY9291                     |
| OphE BKG MIRI             | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy   | (8) OPHE-BKG                   |
| CRBR2315 MIRI             | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy   | (6) CRBR-2315.8-1700           |

## ABSTRACT

An unsolved problem in the context of the chemical composition of star-forming regions is how complex organic molecules (COMs) are produced. The current consensus is that such molecules are formed in ice mantles on dust grain and then released to the gas-phase upon heating or irradiation by photons or cosmic-rays. However, while a wealth of COMs has been detected in the gas-phase toward hot cores and hot corinos with millimeter/submillimeter observations, only methanol, the precursor of some COMs, has been securely identified in the ice phase. Laboratory experiments have shown that large molecules are formed in the ice-phase, thus suggesting that interstellar ices hold large reservoirs of COMs.

With this proposal, we aim to answer: (i) What is the origin of COMs in ices and their abundances? (ii) How does the external UV irradiation of OB stars affects the formation of COMs in protostellar cores? and (iii) How do COM abundances depend on the ice structure (amorphous and crystalline)? We propose mid-infrared observations with MIRI/MRS toward six protostars located in the Ophiuchus Molecular Cloud and close to two OB stars, S1 and HD147889. The resolution (R~2500) and sensitivity (S/N > 300) provided by MIRI will allow us to identify and resolve narrow spectral bands associated with COMs, such as acetaldehyde and ethanol. They can be formed from energetic processing of methanol ice with UV photons and cosmic rays. In particular, ethanol is a precursor of glycolaldehyde, a building block of amino acids. Additionally, the IFU spectroscopy will allow us to map the distribution of ices around the YSOs and stablish correlations with the environment (e.g., UV irradiation field).

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The study of interstellar ices is essential to understand the initial conditions of star and planet formation. In this regard, JWST will provide, for the first time, enough spectral resolution (R ~ 2500) and sensitivity (S/N ~ 300) to detect absorption bands of complex organic molecules in the icy grain mantles. We thus propose mid-infrared observations with the MIRI/MRS spectrometer of six protostars located in the Ophiuchus Molecular Cloud, which is surrounded by three OB stars with luminosities of 1100-4500 Lsun. These JWST/MIRI observations will cover key spectral range where complex organic molecules (COMs) can be identified, namely, 5-20 micron range. Additionally, with the IFU spectroscopic technique available in this observing mode, we will obtain spatial and spectral information, thus allowing us to map the ice distributions around each protostar, and better trace variations from source to source. Our scientific goals with this proposal are to (1) address the composition of the interstellar ice in the Ophiuchus cloud, in particular, acetaldehyde, ethanol, glycolaldehyde and ethylene glycol, which can be formed from the energetic processing of ices containing methanol; (2) study how COM abundances depends on the ice morphology (amorphous or crystalline), and (3) understand the impact of the external UV irradiation on the presence or absence of COMs. Achieving these goals is essential to finally understand the origin of COMs in star-forming regions and how the chemical complexity in the ices are comparable with molecules detected in comets in our Solar System.