---
id: 1960
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Ewine Van Dishoeck"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "21.5"
program_title: "The JWST Protostellar Ice Legacy Survey"
type: "GO"
---
# 1960 - The JWST Protostellar Ice Legacy Survey
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1960
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label          | Observing Template       | Science Target   |
| :------------- | :----------------------- | :--------------- |
| B1-a           | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) B1A          |
| B1-b           | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (2) B1B          |
| L1448-mm       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (3) L1448MM      |
| Per-emb-8      | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (4) PER-EMB-8    |
| L1448-IRS1     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (5) L1448IRS1    |
| Per-emb-22     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (6) PER-EMB-22   |
| Per-emb-33     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (7) PER-EMB-33   |
| Per-emb-35     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (8) PER-EMB-35   |
| EDJ2009-183    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (9) EDJ2009-183  |
| Per-emb-27     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (10) PER-EMB-27  |
| Per-emb-55     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (11) PER-EMB-55  |
| Per-emb-12     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (12) PER-EMB-12  |
| TMC1           | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (13) TMC1        |
| L1527          | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (15) L1527       |

---

## ABSTRACT

This proposal requests NIRSpec-IFU G395H R=2700 observations at 2.87-5.27 micron of 15 low-mass protostellar targets (23 sources) that will be observed with MIRI-MRS in GTO time. Short integration PRISM or G235H integrations are added to cover the shortest wavelengths. Together, the data provide full 2-28 micron spectra that will allow a complete inventory of interstellar ices in the material that feeds young disks in their planet-building phase. The NIRSpec range contains unique features of CN- and S-containing molecules, as well as the prominent solid and gaseous (13)CO2 and (13)CO bands that constrain the chemistry and thermal history of the sources. By observing a significant sample of protostars at high S/N in different evolutionary stages with both NIRSpec and MIRI, we provide a JWST legacy that can be used to investigate trends in abundances and abundance ratios of major and minor C, O, N and S species on spatial scales from >1 pc down to <100 au. Moreover, the high spatial resolution of NIRSpec allows spectral maps of the stronger ice features on ~20 au scales. By matching abundances with what ALMA observes in their hot cores we can address directly the debate whether gas-phase abundances reflect thermal sublimation of ices or whether additional gas-phase chemistry plays a role. Ultimately our protostellar ice inventory can be compared with ices observed in mature edge-on disks to assess chemical inheritance versus evolution and reset of the planet-building material.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to target 15 protostellar systems (23 protostars in total including binary systems) with NIRSpec IFU single pointing, as a complement to MIRI GTO observations. Each observation consists of: 1) G395H/F290LP R=2700 grating/filter combination which covers the 2.87-5.27 micron range that contains essential ice features such as H2O, CO2, OCN-, H2S and OCS as well as CO gas and ice; 2) PRISM/CLEAR setting that spans the entire 0.6-5.3 micron bandwidth of NIRSpec to determine the source continuum at short wavelengths and contribute to the legacy value of the observations. For bright sources, setting 2 is replaced by G235H. For both settings we select the readout pattern NRSIRS2RAPID for optimal S/N output. Integration times are designed to achieve typically S/N=300 at 4 micron, with a minimum S/N~100 when spatially or spectrally binned. A subset of the brightest sources have shorter integration times to avoid saturation. A 4-point dither is used for each of the grating/filter settings to optimize spatial and spectral sampling. Leakcal is performed only for those sources in the vicinity of the bright infrared molecular clouds NGC1333 and IC348, and without any dithering. Background will be assessed with MSA shutters and fixed slits of NIRSpec instrument.