---
id: 1963
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Christina Williams  Co-PIs: Michael Maseda and Sandro Tacchella"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "20.4/15.5"
program_title: "UDF Medium Band Survey: Using H-alpha Emission To Reconstruct Ly-alpha Escape during the Epoch of Reionization"
type: "GO"
---
# 1963 - UDF Medium Band Survey: Using H-alpha Emission To Reconstruct Ly-alpha Escape during the Epoch of Reionization
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1963
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :---- | :----------------- | :------------- |
| UDF   | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) UDF        |

---

## ABSTRACT

The driver and timeline of the reionization of hydrogen in the early Universe remains a major uncertainty in galaxy formation. As redshift increases, one of the primary observational tracers of ionizing photons, Lyman-alpha (Lya), is attenuated by the increasingly neutral intergalactic medium. In order to circumvent this and understand the production and escape of ionizing photons at the highest redshifts, we propose a novel and efficient JWST imaging survey in the UDF to target H-alpha (Ha) and the UV continuum at z=5.4-6.6 (the tail end of reionization epoch). These medium-band observations (NIRCam F182M, F210M, F430M, F460M, F480M; and NIRISS F430M & F480M in parallel) build on the deepest HST and MUSE data publicly available anywhere. The existing data provide Lya and some UV information at high spatial resolution, but lack the critical constraints on the intrinsic ionizing photon production and dust geometry within such galaxies. Our joint Lya-UV-Ha analysis will provide this information on global and spatially resolved (kpc) scales for the first time in individual, normal star forming galaxies during reionization. This program enables the first unbiased accounting of the ionizing photon production budget via Ha, pinpointing where Lya is initially created, and resolving the uncertainties in current data from galaxy orientation and dust geometry. The proposed data also enable multiple additional science objectives, including the discovery of [OIII]+H-beta emitters at z=7.6-9.3. These data will be public immediately, enabling numerous rapid follow-up studies with JWST, and will enhance the legacy value of past and future surveys in this popular field.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose for a single NIRCam pointing in the Ultra Deep Field (UDF; 03 32 38, -27 47 00) to perform a medium-band search from 4.16 to 4.94 microns to trace H-alpha with kpc spatial resolution at redshift 5.4-6.6, a critical regime to understand the decline of Ly-alpha emission in the epoch of reionization. With a single pointing in the UDF, we are able to match the coverage of the deepest MUSE and HST pointings. A single module with an orient of ~310deg covers the whole UDF, while the second module lies in the surrounding region, which also has MUSE and HST coverage. The observations consist of a single visit with three filter pairs: F210M-F430M (13915 sec), F210M-F460M (13915 sec), and F182M-F480M (27830 sec). We employ the DEEP8 readout pattern for all exposures. We perform a coordinated parallel with NIRISS imaging (F430M and F480M) to increase the survey area by 50%, which can be performed without additional overhead. These parallel observations lie also in GOODS-South with HST and partial MUSE coverage. We use the filters F430M (28087 sec) and F480M (28087 sec) with the NIS readout pattern. The dithering pattern is fixed to INTRAMODULEBOX with 4 primary dither positions and a 3-POINT-MEDIUM-WITH-NIRISS for the subpixel dither type. We choose the INTRAMODULEBOX pattern since it is more compact than INTRAMODULE or INTRAMODULEX, thereby yielding more area at full depth. The science exposure time is 15.47 hrs, and the total charged time is 20.42 hrs.