---
id: 1981
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/BOTS  NIRCam/GTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Kevin Stevenson  Co-PIs: Jacob Lustig-Yaeger"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 75.6
program_title: "Tell Me How I’m Supposed To Breathe With No Air: Measuring the Prevalence and Diversity of M-Dwarf Planet Atmospheres"
type: "GO"
---
# 1981 - Tell Me How I’m Supposed To Breathe With No Air: Measuring the Prevalence and Diversity of M-Dwarf Planet Atmospheres
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1981
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label    | Observing Template                | Science Target     |
| :------- | :-------------------------------- | :----------------- |
| Visit 1  | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (4) GJ-4102        |
| Visit 2  | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (4) GJ-4102        |
| Visit 4  | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (4) GJ-4102        |
| Visit 5  | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (14) GJ-4102A      |
| Visit 3  | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (4) GJ-4102        |
| Visit 1  | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) WOLF-437       |
| Visit 2  | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) WOLF-437       |
| Visit 1  | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (2) GJ-1132        |
| Visit 2  | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (2) GJ-1132        |
| Visit 3  | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (2) GJ-1132        |
| Visit 4  | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (2) GJ-1132        |
| Visit 1  | NIRCam Grism Time Series          | (3) GJ-341         |
| Visit 2  | NIRCam Grism Time Series          | (3) GJ-341         |
| Visit 3  | NIRCam Grism Time Series          | (3) GJ-341         |
| Visit 1  | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (5) TRAPPIST-1     |
| Visit 3  | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (5) TRAPPIST-1     |

---

## ABSTRACT

One of JWST's four pillars of science points to finding the building blocks of life elsewhere in the universe. Planets orbiting M-dwarf stars represent our best (and only) opportunity to measure the spectrum of a potentially-habitable planet in the next decade. The quest towards habitability begins with a simple question: Does this planet have an atmosphere? Whether or not terrestrial M-dwarf planets can retain their atmospheres is a hotly debated topic and only a large observational campaign acquiring exoplanet transmission spectra can provide unequivocal evidence of atmospheres. Understanding which M-dwarf planets have atmospheres will focus future theoretical efforts and could provide the first evidence of a "cosmic shoreline", a universal division between planets with and without substantial atmospheres. Even the population of planets with tenuous atmospheres will inform us about atmospheric escape processes.
In this study, we will obtain transmission spectra of nine terrestrial planets orbiting the nearest M dwarfs using instrument modes that are sensitive to CO2 at 4.3 microns and CH4 at 3.3 microns, the strongest such features in JWST's wavelength range. Upon successful completion of this campaign, we will know which transiting M-dwarf planets within 15 parsecs have atmospheres and, of those that do, the fundamental diversity in their basic atmospheric compositions. We will know how the presence of an atmosphere correlates with planet irradiation and escape velocity, and how the evolutionary history of M dwarfs shapes the atmospheres of the planets that orbit them. Ultimately, this study will generate new sparks of life in M-dwarf planet research.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will perform time-series observations of five terrestrial exoplanets orbiting the nearest M dwarfs to determine which planets have atmospheres and, of those that do, the fundamental diversity in their basic atmospheric composition.
The fundamental parameter that determines the length of our time-series observations is the transit duration. Additionally, for each visit, we will require a few hours of baseline both before and after the transit to identify and effectively model any instrument systematics. We compute the exposure times, phase constraints, and signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) for each observation based on the JWST ETC, ExoCTK, and PandExo estimates. We require a total of 76 hours (including overheads) for the given primary targets. Below we provide details of each observation.
WOLF 347b: 2 transits, NIRSpec/G395
GJ 1132b: 2 transits, NIRSpec/G395
GJ 341b: 3 transits, NIRCam/F444W, PA constraints
GJ 4102b: 3 transits, NIRSpec/G395
TRAPPIST-1h: 3 transits, NIRSpec/PRISM, avoid multi-planet transits
All of the NIRSpec/G395H targets are too bright for TA and rely on a faint, nearby companion to avoid saturation. GJ 341 has PA constraints to avoid contamination from nearby targets. We will avoid TRAPPIST-1h transits that overlap with transits from other planets within the same system. The Visit Planner shows that there is a sufficient number of transit opportunities available for each target.