---
id: 1983
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Shobita Satyapal"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "11.2"
program_title: "Uncovering Intermediate Mass Black Holes with JWST: Pushing the Frontier"
type: "GO"
---
# 1983 - Uncovering Intermediate Mass Black Holes with JWST: Pushing the Frontier
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1983
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template       | Science Target |
| :---- | :----------------------- | :------------- |
| 1     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) J1601      |
| 2     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (2) J1201      |

---

## ABSTRACT

Intermediate mass black holes (IMBHs) in local low metallicity dwarf galaxies, with masses between one hundred and a million solar masses are crucial to our understanding of the origins of supermassive black holes (SMBHs) and will give rise to the prime targets for LISA. Despite their importance, very little is known about their mass distribution and the host galaxies in which they reside. Dynamical studies cannot uncover the lowest masses, and accreting IMBHs have eluded detection by optical spectroscopic, mid-infrared color, X-ray, and radio surveys due either to obscuration of the central engine, or dilution of the accretion activity from star formation in the host galaxy. In fact, there is currently no direct evidence for black holes with masses between ~ 150 - 10,000 solar masses, a gap of roughly two orders of magnitude in mass. In this pilot program, we propose to push the frontier in the low mass regime by observing two nearby low mass, low metallicity dwarf galaxies with the most convincing evidence yet for optically elusive AGNs in the lowest mass galaxies. Using the NIRSpec IFU, this pilot program is designed to unveil a ~1000 solar mass IMBH, an order of magnitude lower than any other nuclear black hole known in a galaxy thus far and will be the lowest mass galaxy in the Universe known to host an AGN. With a modest investment in observing time, this study can not only make a breakthrough in the IMBH mass frontier, but pave the way to discover more elusive AGNs in the low mass regime. This program can only be carried out using the unique capabilities of JWST.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The goal of this proposal is to obtain near infrared spectroscopy of two dwarf galaxies with compelling evidence for optically elusive active galactic nuclei (AGNs) in order to search for coronal lines (CLs), and to obtain intensity and kinematic maps to confirm their hidden AGNs and constrain their properties. To exploit the maximum sensitivity of JWST and observe the infrared CLs with the highest ionization potentials (IPs) that are sensitive to the ionizing SED, we request NIRSpec IFU medium resolution observations in two gratings (G235M and G395M) for our two targets enabling the detection of key diagnostic CLs necessary to achieve our science goals that are impossible to observe from the ground.

Given carefully determined S/N requirements on the various emission lines, we request ~3600 sec and ~7100 sec, respectively, for each target with the G235M and G395M grating settings. We will use NSIRS2RAPID readout with 60 groups & 1 integration at four dither positions for the brighter target and 60 groups & 2 integrations at four dither positions for the fainter target. No saturation issues are expected based on ETC estimates.

Since we are using NIRSpec, LeakCals will be necessary, but because our primary goal is to obtain the emission line fluxes, we follow the recommended LeakCal strategy and will obtain a single LeakCal at only one position with the same exposure time as our observation. Based on the expected pointing accuracy of JWST and the fact that our targets have SDSS coordinates, we will not be requiring any target acquisition; our targets are compact and will fit completely in the NIRSpec 3"x3" FOV. We will also be able to perform background subtraction within the FOV, increasing the efficiency of our program.