---
id: 1984
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging  NIRSpec/FS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Edo Berger"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "11.9"
program_title: "Fine-Tuned Search for Kilonova Emission in a Short Gamma-Ray Burst: Implications for Gravitational Wave Sources and r-Process Nucleosynthesis"
type: "GO,  Disruptive ToO"
---
# 1984 - Fine-Tuned Search for Kilonova Emission in a Short Gamma-Ray Burst: Implications for Gravitational Wave Sources and r-Process Nucleosynthesis
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1984
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template                 | Science Target |
| :---- | :--------------------------------- | :------------- |
| 1     | NIRCam Imaging                     | (1) TOO1       |
| 3     | NIRCam Imaging                     | (1) TOO1       |
| 2     | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy    | (2) TOO2       |
| 4     | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy    | (2) TOO2       |

---

## ABSTRACT

The joint gravitational wave and electromagnetic detections of the binary neutron star (BNS) merger GW170817 ushered in a new era of astrophysics. In the UV/optical/NIR the emission (a "kilonova") was powered by radioactive decay of nuclei produced via r-process nucleosynthesis. In the gamma-ray, X-ray, and radio the emission was instead powered by an off-axis jet typical of short gamma-ray bursts (SGRBs); this connection was previously supported by the HST detection of a kilonova in the short GRB130603B. With only a single joint GW-EM detection and a single kilonova detection in an SGRB, the key frontier is to begin to map the distribution of merger outcomes: ejecta mass, velocity, geometry, and nucleosynthetic yields. Here we propose to achieve this goal with detailed JWST observations of a kilonova associated with an SGRB; observations of kilonovae in SGRBs are essential because the orientation is well known (face-on, along the binary's angular momentum axis) and the LIGO/Virgo Observing Run 3 did not yield any new joint GW-EM detections. Such a detailed study can only be achieved at the redshifts typical of SGRBs with the infrared sensitivity and angular resolution of JWST. We request up to 11.9 hours for 1 SGRB event. The JWST observations will be supported by an on-going multi-wavelength program (e.g., Chandra, VLA, ALMA, Gemini, Keck, Magellan, MMT) that will provide the target, cover optical and early NIR follow-up to establish the baseline behavior, and complete the multi-wavelength picture of the event. Given the broad interest in this topic we waive the proprietary period.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The program will target a single short gamma-ray burst (SGRB) at a redshift of z<0.9. The first epoch will be timed to an observer time of 4x(1+z) days, requiring a disruptive ToO at 4-8 days. Depending on the brightness of the host galaxy and the angular separation between the SGRB and its host, we may need to obtain template observations at >1 month (non-disruptive ToO) for host subtraction, with an identical setup and time request to the main observation.

At z<0.5 we will obtain NIRSpec spectroscopy with the following setup: prism grating with the S200 A1 slit, full frame, NRS IRS2 readout pattern, 4 integrations per exposure with 25 groups per integration, and 2 dithered exposures (14,706 s on-source; 21,362 s with overheads). This will provide S/N=5-15 at 0.85-4 micron, and with expected binning by a factor of 2-3 (due to the broad spectral features) it will achieve S/N>8 at 0.85-4 micron. At z=0.5-0.9 we will obtain NIRCam imaging with the following setup: We will pair the short- and long-wavelength filters as F115W+F444W, F150W+F356W, and F200W+F277W. The first pairing is specifically designed since F115W and F444W have lower throughput relative to other filters, so we will use a longer integration time in those filters. We use 5497 sec on-source for F115W+F444W (7 groups, 1 integration, 4 dithered exposure, DEEP8 readout), and 3779 sec on-source for F150W+F356W and F200W+F277W (5 groups, 1 integration, 4 dithered exposure, DEEP8 readout). The resulting limiting magnitudes (S/N=3) are 29.2-29.6 AB mag and S/N=10 detections will be achieved at 27.9-28.3 AB mag (0.1" radius aperture). The total on-source time is 13,060 s (19,398 s with overheads).