---
id: 1991
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: George Privon"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "8.5"
program_title: "Lifting the Veil on the Most Obscured Galaxies in the Universe"
type: "GO"
---
# 1991 - Lifting the Veil on the Most Obscured Galaxies in the Universe
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=1991
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                       | Observing Template                     | Science Target    |
| :-------------------------- | :------------------------------------- | :---------------- |
| IC860-MIRI                  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (1) IC-860        |
| IC860-MIRI Background       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (2) IC-860-BKG    |
| IC860-NIRSpec               | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy               | (5) IC-860-NIR    |
| NGC4418-MIRI                | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (3) NGC-4418      |
| NGC4418-MIRI Background     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (4) NGC-4418-BKG  |
| NGC4418-NIRSpec             | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy               | (6) NGC-4418-NIR  |

---

## ABSTRACT

Some of the most extreme galaxy nuclei lie within our cosmic backyard. Compact Obscured Nuclei (CONs)--with sizes of tens of parsecs, luminosity densities in excess of 10^8 Lsun / pc^2, and gas column densities > 10^25 cm-2--have recently been identified in local infrared-luminous galaxies. The physical properties, power source (AGN vs star formation), and fate of these nuclei remains unclear. The rich diagnostic power of the mid-infrared, combined with the sensitivity and resolution of JWST, are crucial to understanding the CONs. A signpost of CONs is their (sub)millimeter emission from vibrationally excited HCN molecules. We propose JWST observations of two prototypical CONs -- NGC 4418 and IC 860. We will observe the 14um absorption of HCN and measure the physical conditions inside the CONs. We will also use the JWST observations to measure the molecular gas properties (via H2 emission and CO absorption) and infer the dust grain properties and radiation field in and around the CONs. The compactness and energy densities of the CONs imply that they are be powered either by black hole accretion or by star formation with an extremely top-heavy (i.e., O star only) initial mass function. Their column densities render optical and X-ray diagnostics ineffective -- the spectroscopic capabilities of JWST are crucial to detecting any emission from highly ionized species (e.g., [Ne V], [Ne VI], [Si IX]) arising from ionized radiation leaking out of the CON. This modest time investment will reveal the physical conditions, energy source, and fate of some of the most extreme galaxy nuclei known.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We request MIRI-MRS and NIRSpec IFU observations of two low-redshift galaxies that are known to have compact, infrared emitting cores. These observations will be used to characterize their compact cores and the immediate surroundings. The observations target molecular absorption features as well as traditional AGN/SB tracers, PAH features, and other ISM tracers. Simultaenous MIRI imaging will also be obtained in F770W, F1000W, and F1130W, to target Silicate and PAH features.