---
id: 2004
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Kalliopi Dasyra"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "5.6"
program_title: "Pressure Gradients of the Molecular Gas and Their Role in Cloud Stability in Massive Outflows Driven by Black Hole Jets"
type: "GO"
---
# 2004 - Pressure Gradients of the Molecular Gas and Their Role in Cloud Stability in Massive Outflows Driven by Black Hole Jets
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2004
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                    | Observing Template                 | Science Target |
| :----------------------- | :--------------------------------- | :------------- |
| IC5063 - MIRI IFU mosaic | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) IC5063     |
| MIRI Sky                 | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) SKY        |

## ABSTRACT

We propose MIRI MRS observations of the nearby galaxy IC5063 that will enable us to determine the changes in the H2 gas properties that occur as radio jets propagate through a disk and initiate outflows. We will map the emission of H2 lines in order to derive the temperature, the density, and thus the pressure of the warm and tenuous medium surrounding the cold and dense molecular clouds impacted by the jets. By comparing this pressure map with a pressure map from CO(1-0) to (4-3) ALMA data, we will quantify the changes in the external vs. internal pressure and, thus, in the stability of individual dense clouds after the jet passage. We will observationally determine, for the first time, the mass fraction of dense clouds that joins the outflow. We will examine whether the dissipation of the dense clouds that leads to their entrainment is primarily due to shocks, cosmic rays, or X-rays. From the density and the velocity of the warm H2, we will obtain a lower limit for the outflow duration based on how long ram pressure took to accelerate dense clouds to the observed velocities. From the mass and the velocity of the warm H2, we will compute the total molecular gas mass that resulted in the halo and got removed from the reservoir available for star formation. Combining gas and dust diagnostics, we will look for star formation variations along the jet. For this project, which will test fundamental physics models of the dense gas acceleration in million or billion solar mass outflows, we ask for ~2 hours of science time on the JWST. The observations will have a highly demonstrative value for the telescope, as IC5063 is a well studied galaxy, prototype of jet-driven winds.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose for JWST MIRI MRS observations of the local galaxy IC5063, in which a radio jet impacts dense molecular clouds as it propagates through the disk. Outflows are initiated along its propagation path. Our goal is to obtain spatially-resolved information on the warm molecular gas properties, such as its density, temperature, and mass. This information will enable us to determine the conditions of the warm ISM surrounding the dense molecular clouds that are impacted by the radio jet, and to examine how the pressure of the external H2-emitting medium affects the stability of the CO-emitting dense clouds. The amount of gas originating from dissipated dense clouds and the fraction of the overall warm H2 medium that is lost to the halo and removed from the star formation reservoir will be computed. A mosaic is requested comprising both the jet trail and quiescent regions around it, so that spatial gradients between the jet-affected and unaffected regions are quantified. The mosaic needs to have a position angle between 57 -92 or 237-272 degrees. Sky observations should be executed in an interrupted sequence with the source observations.