---
id: 2025
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Karin Oberg"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 12.8
program_title: "The Chemistry of Planet Formation: A JWST-ALMA Survey of 4 Planet-Forming Disks"
type: "GO"
---
# 2025 - The Chemistry of Planet Formation: A JWST-ALMA Survey of 4 Planet-Forming Disks
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2025
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                                       | Observing Template                    | Science Target      |
| :------------------------------------------ | :------------------------------------ | :------------------ |
| AS 209 MIRI MRS                             | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy   | (1) EM-AS-209       |
| GM Aur MIRI MRS                             | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy   | (2) V-GM-AUR        |
| GM Aur MIRI MRS                             | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy   | (2) V-GM-AUR        |
| MWC 480 MIRI MRS                            | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy   | (3) HD-31648        |
| HD 163296 MIRI MRS                          | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy   | (4) HD-163296       |
| MWC 480 MIRI MRS (copy of failed observation 3) | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy   | (3) HD-31648        |
| MWC 480 MIRI MRS (copy of failed observation 5) | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy   | (3) HD-31648        |

## ABSTRACT

Planets form and obtain their volatile inventories in disks around young stars. ALMA has recently completed a large program on the chemistry of 5 such disks at spatial resolutions of 10-15 au. The gas structure and chemical composition of their outer disk regions (>10 au) have been characterized in exquisite detail, revealing an impressive chemical and morphological diversity. We propose to use MIRI to obtain the complementary chemical composition of the inner 10 au of 4/5 of these disks (the 5th is part of a GTO program). The resulting data set will provide a complete chemical inventory from the small terrestrial planet-forming scales to the outer disk regions where e.g. comets may assemble. We will use the combined JWST-ALMA data set to retrieve the radial column density profiles of the main carriers of volatile C and O, of probes of the C/N/O/S gas-phase elemental ratios, and of key organic molecules across all planet-forming radii. This legacy data set will enable the best constraints to date on the composition of planet forming material at different disk radii, and on the dynamical and chemical links between different disk regions.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This program aims at obtain deep MIRI MRS spectral imaging of 4 protoplanetary disks: GM Aur, AS 209, HD 163296 and MWC 480. The spectra will cover the full range from 5 to 28 micron, using all three available sub-bands. 3 of the 4 targets are too bright for TA, even with the ND filter, but GM Aur is faint enough for TA, so it is enabled here to optimize the reproducibility of the spectro-photometric calibration, and in particular to aid in defringing of the central point source. We anticipate somewhat lower accuracy in spectro-photometric calibration with TA, but the pointing accuracy of the observatory should be good enough to ensure that all 4 dither points are fully enclosed in the MRS FOV, even in Channel 1. As recommended, the 4-point dither pattern is used.
GM Aur uses SLOWR1 to avoid triggering the data volume warning. The other targets can use FASTR1.