---
id: 2028
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Feige Wang  Co-PI: Jinyi Yang"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "16.3/5.8"
program_title: "Mapping a Distant Protocluster Anchored by a Luminous Quasar in the Epoch of Reionization"
type: "GO"
---
# 2028 - Mapping a Distant Protocluster Anchored by a Luminous Quasar in the Epoch of Reionization
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2028
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Folder | Observation | Label                 | Observing Template             | Science Target                         |
| :----- | :---------- | :-------------------- | :----------------------------- | :------------------------------------- |
| MSA    | 1           | J0910_new_observable mpt | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (6) J0910m0414_all_objects_new |
| IFU    | 3           | J0910Q-NIRSpec IFU    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy       | (1) J0910Q                             |

---

## ABSTRACT

Theoretical models predict that luminous quasars should act as signposts for protoclusters in the young Universe. However, despite extensive searching, protoclusters traced by quasars have not yet been discovered in the epoch of reionization (EoR). Recent ALMA/JCMT sub-mm observations and Subaru narrow/broad band imaging of a luminous quasar at z=6.63 have finally revealed a spectacular overdensity of [CII] emitters, sub-mm galaxies, and Lyman alpha emitters, suggesting that it is the most distant known protocluster harboring quasar activity, and the first such system discovered in the EoR. An approved HST program will mosaic two 3'x3' fields, centered at the quasar and a galaxy merging system within this protocluster, respectively. The quasar, with both strong gas outflow as indicated by broad absorption lines and inflow as indicated by multiple metal absorption lines, is hosted by an extended massive merging galaxy. Moreover, the quasar host features an extremely broad [CII] line with a FWHM of 930 km/s, suggesting that this quasar resides in a deep gravitational potential and could be a progenitor of the brightest cluster galaxy (BCG).
We propose NIRSpec MSA observations to identify galaxies physically associated to this protocluster by targeting galaxies selected from HST observations. The MSA observations will allow us to map the 3D structure of the protocluster, measure AGN fraction of protocluster member galaxies, and characterize the physical properties of galaxies in the most dense structure yet known in the EoR. In addition, we will perform NIRSpec IFU observation of the quasar to study the formation of the BCG progenitor.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

**Observation 1 - NIRSpec MSA observation of a field around the central luminous quasar**
This is NIRSpec MSA follow-up of high redshift galaxies selected from HST/WFC3 imaging. The HST observations are scheduled in early 2021 and would give us plenty time to select targets.
We use the G395M/F290LP setup for observing Hbeta, [OIII] 4959, 5007, and Halpha emission lines of galaxies at z=6.6. The MSA observation will also target the luminous quasar, which will deliver a very high quality spectrum of the quasar.
We also perform coordinated parallel observations with NIRCam. We use the F115W+F356W and F070W+F444W combinations to select z~6.6 galaxies in an additional sky area within this giant protocluster.

**Observation 2 - NIRSpec MSA observation of a field centered at a merging system in the protocluster**
This observation is similar to Observation 1 but centered at a galaxy merger within the protocluster.

**Observation 3 - NIRSpec IFU observations of the central quasar**
The central quasar has strong outflow and inflow features and is hosted by a massive galaxy merger. We will use the IFU G395H/F290LP to map the strongest optical nebular lines (Hbeta, [OIII], Halpha, [NII]). The main science goals of this observation are characterizing the quasar outflow, detecting star formation in quasar host galaxy, and investigating the black hole fueling.
We will observe this object with IFU PRISM/CLEAR_for detecting quasar host galaxy in continuum over the whole wavelength range covered by NIRSpec. We include leakcal at the first dither position for the PRISM observation.
We are using no target acquisition (i.e. point-and-shoot) for this observation. At any of the constrained PA range there are Gaia GS that can be selected for guiding and that will ensure the proper location of the target within the IFU aperture, with the required accuracy.
We are using NRSIRS2RAPID for a better identification and rejection of cosmic rays.