---
id: 2044
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU  MIRI/LRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Kielan Wilcomb  Co-PIs: Marshall Perrin and Quinn Konopacky"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 5.2
program_title: "Direct Imaging Spectroscopy of Two Jovian Exoplanets: Characterization of the TYC 8998-760-1 Multi-Planetary System"
type: "GO"
---
# 2044 - Direct Imaging Spectroscopy of Two Jovian Exoplanets: Characterization of the TYC 8998-760-1 Multi-Planetary System
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2044
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                        | Observing Template               | Science Target                |
| :--------------------------- | :------------------------------- | :---------------------------- |
| NIRSpec IFU: G395H and Prism | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy         | (4) TYC-8998-760-1-B-AND-C    |
| MIRI LRS: b                  | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) TYC-8998-760-1-B          |
| MIRI LRS: c                  | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) TYC-8998-760-1-C          |

---

## ABSTRACT

TYC 8988-760-1 is the most recently discovered imaged multi-planetary system, containing two young Jovian exoplanets seen at ~160 and 320 au (1.7" and 3" projected separations). We propose a comprehensive spectroscopic characterization of these two worlds using the NIRSpec IFU and MIRI LRS to obtain complete spectra of both planets spanning 1-12 microns at low resolution, for high fidelity measurements of fundamental planetary properties through atmospheric retrievals, and at high-resolution across 3-5 microns to measure elemental abundances, non-equilibrium chemistry, and cloud properties using forward modeling. Together these spectral datasets, spanning a wealth of molecular and atomic lines, will yield measurements of planetary temperatures, radii, atmospheric C/O ratio, metallicity, vertical mixing, clouds, and more. The combination of low- and high-resolution data will break degeneracies of these parameters with properties such as non-equilibrium chemistry and surface gravity. These observations will enable detailed comparative planetology assessing the atmospheres and formation pathways of these worlds against one another, other directly imaged planets, and young field brown dwarfs. The presence of two imaged planets in this system, and their brightness and wide separation from the host star, makes this system an extraordinarily favorable target for JWST exoplanet spectroscopy, and will efficiently yield exquisitely precise spectra for comparative study of their atmospheres to an unprecedented level.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Our program will obtain complete spectra of both planets in this multi-planet system from 1-12 microns using NIRSpec and MIRI at low resolution, plus higher resolution (R~2700) spectra from 3-5 microns using NIRSpec.

NIRSpec observations:
An IFU pointing centered on the planets will obtain high-SNR spectra of both simultaneously, while keeping the host star out of the IFU aperture. We observe in Clear/Prism and G395H/F290LP modes. The IFU target location is the point midway between the two planets. Target acquisition is not needed; the expected pointing precision without TA is more than sufficient to place both planets well within the IFU field. We use NIRSpec's 4-POINT-DITHER pattern to improve sampling and mitigate instrumental and detector artifacts. Total exposure times are 3560 s (G359H/F290LP) and 1050 s (Clear/Prism).

MIRI observations:
MIRI LRS slit spectra will be taken for each planet. To minimize stellar light entering the slit, we will observe each planet with the slit oriented approximately perpendicular to the vector between planet and star. To ensure accurate pointings for the LRS observations, we will perform offset target acquisitions, using the host star itself as the acquisition target with the ND filter, and then offsetting the small distance to each planet. We use the Nod Along Slit dither pattern for background subtraction and detector artifact mitigation. Total exposure times are 5000 s (for planet c) and 500 s (for planet b).