---
id: 2045
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Matthew Hosek"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "2.6"
program_title: "Testing the Physical Origin of the Initial Mass Function and Circumstellar Disk Destruction with Massive Clusters at the Galactic Center"
type: "GO"
---
# 2045 - Testing the Physical Origin of the Initial Mass Function and Circumstellar Disk Destruction with Massive Clusters at the Galactic Center
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2045
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label        | Observing Template | Science Target                |
| :----------- | :----------------- | :---------------------------- |
| Arches       | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) NAME-ARCHES-CLUSTER       |
| Quintuplet   | NIRCam Imaging     | (2) NAME-QUINTUPLET-CLUSTER   |
| Quintuplet   | NIRCam Imaging     | (2) NAME-QUINTUPLET-CLUSTER   |

## ABSTRACT

The Galactic center (GC) offers a unique opportunity to conduct detailed and resolved studies of star formation in an extreme starburst-like environment. We propose to use JWST NIRCam to perform the deepest ever study of the Arches and Quintuplet clusters, two young (<5 Myr) and massive (10^4 Msun) clusters near the GC. These observations will allow us to identify cluster members to sub-solar masses (M > 0.4 Msun) for the first time, distinguishing between competing models for how the Initial Mass Function (IMF) behaves in such environments. This provides a critical benchmark for star formation theory, as the IMF is shaped by the physical processes driving star formation, and informs our understanding of unresolved stellar populations at high redshifts where starbursts were common. In addition, simultaneous long-wavelength observations will provide a census of infrared excess sources ~3 mags deeper than previous studies, from which we will test predictions regarding how strongly environmental conditions (such as external photoionization and dynamical interactions) influence circumstellar disk lifetimes. The combination of high spatial resolution, sensitivity, and field of view makes JWST uniquely suited to achieve these goals, which will impact many additional areas of astrophysics such as galaxy mass evolution, cosmic star formation, compact object production and merger rates in galactic nuclei, and planet formation in different environments.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We request NIRCam observations (2.6 hrs total, including overheads) of the Arches and Quintuplet order to study the low-mass IMF and circumstellar disk destruction in the clusters. This represents the first of two astrometric epochs needed to reliably separate cluster members from field stars. The repeat epoch will be requested 5 years from now, the nomial lifetime of JWST. By establishing the time baseline in cycle 1, we maximize the time baseline between the observations and thus the required telescope time is minimized and maximally efficient. These observations will allow us to conclusively distinguish between theories on which physical processes shape the IMF in starburst-like environments and assess how strongly the circumstellar disk populations have been impacted by the harsh conditions.

The F212N and F323N filters will be used for each cluster. Only the B Module is required to obtain full spatial coverage of the clusters. Twelve individual dither positions will be used in order to cover the short-wavelength chip gap and provide sub-pixel sampling of the point-spread function to improve astrometric accuracy. Astrometry will be obtained in the F212N filter, where the proposed observations are designed to provide sufficent astrometric accuracy for accurate cluster membership selection to F212N = 21.0 mag, the predicted confusion limit in the fields. This will allow us to identify cluster members for M > 0.4 Msun, a critical range for distinguishing between possible IMF models. The F323N observations will be used for photometry, as the F212N - F323N color will allow us to identify circumstellar disk candidates via infrared-excess emission down to sub-solar masses. This will allow us to compare the disk population in these clusters to populations of similar mass in local clusters for the first time, quantifying the impact of the extreme environment on disk lifetimes.