---
id: 2050
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Gregory Sloan"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "5.3"
program_title: "Mid-infrared Molecular Absorption in the Atmospheres of K Giants"
type: "GO"
---
# 2050 - Mid-infrared Molecular Absorption in the Atmospheres of K Giants
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2050
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label      | Observing Template                  | Science Target |
| :--------- | :---------------------------------- | :------------- |
| HR 6348    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) HR6348     |
| HR 7341    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) HR7341     |
| HD 166780  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) HD166780   |
| HD 173511  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) HD173511   |

## ABSTRACT

We will observe four K giants with the Medium-Resolution Spectrometer (MRS) on JWST in order to solve an enduring problem in stellar astrophysics. Stellar models consistently underpredict the strength of molecular absorption bands observed in the mid-infrared, including the CO fundamental at 5 um, the SiO fundamental at 8 um, and the OH bands from 14 to 18 um. This discrepancy impacts infrared photometric calibration and astrophysical fields well beyond stellar atmospheres, from stellar population models in galaxies to the cosmic distance ladder. Our MRS observations will resolve the line structure in the mid-infrared absorption bands with better spectral resolution and sensitivity than ever before possible. The resulting spectra will reveal the temperature and other physical properties of the absorbing molecular layer as a function of wavelength. With these measurements, we can build a better generation of more accurate models of late-type stellar atmospheres.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The sample consists of 4 K giants, all close to the northern CVZ. Each star will be observed with the MRS, utilizing a self TA and in all three MRS grating settings. All TAs will use the neutral density filter. The observations consist of one or two short integrations with 5-8 groups in four dither positions in each grating setting.

This program does not have any special requirements, and it does not use simultaneous imaging.