---
id: 2053
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/FS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Isabel Rebollido"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 5.9
program_title: "Search for NIR Gas in Debris Disks. Is There a Water Delivery Mechanism?"
type: "GO"
---
# 2053 - Search for NIR Gas in Debris Disks. Is There a Water Delivery Mechanism?
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2053
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label             | Observing Template             | Science Target      |
| :---------------- | :----------------------------- | :------------------ |
| HD 110058 - 1     | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (1) HD-110058       |
| HD 156623 - 1     | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (2) HD-156623       |
| HD 156623 - 1     | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (2) HD-156623       |
| HD 131488 - 1     | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (3) HD-131488       |
| HD 131835 - 1     | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (4) HD-131835       |
| HD 36546 - 1      | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (5) HD-36546        |

## ABSTRACT

Observations in far-infrared and (sub-)mm wavelengths have found evidence for a non-negligible amount of gas around ~20 nearby main-sequence stars with debris disks. This gas, located in the outer regions of the systems, is likely to have originated via collisions or evaporation of planetesimals due to dynamical instabilities. Gas detected in the optical range with spectroscopy, located much closer to the star, and attributed to the presence of evaporating bodies, has also been found in these systems, pointing towards these objects, also known as exocomets, as a possible transportation mechanism for volatiles from the outer regions of planetary systems, beyond the snowline, to the inner regions where rocky planets are located. However, observations thus far have not been able to identify warm gas in intermediate regions, or the presence of water, and therefore we don't yet understand how the transportation mechanisms might compare to those observed in the solar system. We propose to use NIRSpec fixed slit mid-resolution observations in the 3 to 5 micron range to look for volatiles in a sample of 5 debris disk stars with known millimetric and optical gas, in particular targeting the 4.5-5 micron water features that is not observable from the ground. The detection of CO and water could not only help constrain the amount and temperature of gas, key in planet formation studies, but also shed light into the dynamics and architecture of planetary systems, and have implications in astrobiological studies, such as water delivery theories.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose observations using NIRSpec fixed slit mode, using the grating and filter G395H/F290LP to allow high-resolution (R 2700) spectroscopy across the 3 to 5 micron wavelength range to observe gas volatiles in the gaseous disk of 5 main-sequence stars. Due to the brightness of the objects, we are requesting the 1.6"x1.6" slit, and the subarray SUB2048 as to minimize the wavelength gap. We will perform WATA in order to improve the pointing, and avoid any light dispersion that could affect the wavelength calibration. The targets have been selected based on: 1) Presence of a debris disk, indicative of dust and planetesimals in the system; 2) Sub-mm gas detection, located at tens to hundreds AU from the star; 3) Optical gas detection, located in the inner regions of the system at few stellar radii; 4) K band magnitudes below saturation. Two of the selected targets also have detections in optical spectroscopy of exocomet-like features. We apply for a total of 5.91 hours of observation, after the Smart Accounting has been applied. This will allow us to reach high SNR (~500), necessary to avoid blending of the narrow features originated in the disk.