---
id: 2055
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Joshua Lothringer"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 9.1
program_title: "Tracing Hot Jupiter Formation and Migration with Volatile and Refractory Element Ratios"
type: "GO"
---
# 2055 - Tracing Hot Jupiter Formation and Migration with Volatile and Refractory Element Ratios
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2055
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
    | Label   | Observing Template                | Science Target |
    | :------ | :-------------------------------- | :------------- |
    | Transit | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) HD-134004  |

## ABSTRACT
    A primary goal of exoplanet characterization is to use a planet's current composition to understand how that planet formed. For example, the C/O ratio has long been recognized as carrying important information on the enrichment via ices in the outer parts of the protoplanetary disk. JWST opens the door to characterization of the C/O ratio. However, the C/O ratio alone cannot unambiguously constrain the formation mechanism or location of an exoplanet. A new path forward is to measure both volatile (C, O) and refractory (Fe, Mg, Si) elemental abundances in ultra-hot Jupiters, which can remain hot enough to largely avoid the condensation of these elements. By measuring the refractory-to-volatile ratio, we can infer the rock-to-ice ratio of the atmosphere, which can distinguish various formation and migration scenarios. We propose to measure the 2.9-5.2 micron transmission spectrum of ultra-hot Jupiter WASP-178b with JWST/NIRSpec/G395H to complement UV-NIR observations from HST. This exciting planet shows large short-wavelength transit depths from Fe and SiO, allowing us to measure refractory elemental abundances. Combined with our proposed JWST spectra, we will measure the planets O, C, and refractory content and be able to constrain whether the planet formed inside or outside the H2O iceline, whether the planet formed via planetesimal- or gas-dominated accreation, and whether the planet formed in a carbon-depleted disk. Such measurements would represent the beginning of a paradigm shift in our ability to connect the present-day composition of exoplanets to the processes and building blocks that formed them.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION
    We will observe a single transit of WASP-178b with NIRSpec/G395H. Our time series observations will consist of observing a single transit event where WASP-178b passes in front of its host star, WASP-178, relative to Earth. Transits of WASP-178b are 3.47 hours long (Hellier et al. 2019). To gather sufficient baseline, we will start our observations in a 1 hour window between 4 and 3 hours before the center of the transit (i.e., 1.25 and 2.25 hours before ingress). We will then observe for 7 hours to observe ingress, the transit, egress, and the after-transit baseline.
    We will use the SUB2048 subarray to readout the whole wavelength coverage of the instrument with NRSRAPID readout mode. Using the PandExo observing simulator, we determined the optimal number of groups per integration for our situation. This observing plan will gather 480 total integrations with 57 groups each for a total of nearly 26,880 frames. In each 52-second integration, we will reach a maximum S/N of 189 at shorter wavelength and a minimum S/N of 80 at longer wavelengths (ETC Calc ID 58029.1). We will reach a maximum of 80% saturation in the brightest pixel.
    Due to the high saturation magnitude (J=11.2) of even the fastest NIRSpec Wide Aperture Target Acquisition (WATA) sequence (SUB32+F110W+NRSRAPID), we cannot directly acquire on WASP-178 (J=9.78) as this will fully saturate 2 pixels. We will instead use the nearest star that is in both the Gaia and 2MASS catalogues, as this will ensure an accurate position, proper motion, and IR magnitude. 15090619-4242069 is a nearby J=16.3 star 17.867 arcsec away from WASP-178, well within the 70.0 arcsec visit splitting distance, that we will use for TA, after which we will offset to our science target. With SUB2048, F110W, and NRSRAPID, we will gain SNR of about 150 during WATA (ETC Calc ID 58029.3).
    Our observations are phase constrained in order to observe the primary transit of WASP-178b in front of its host star WASP-178. These events occur about every 3.3 days with a 1 hour window to begin observations. Additionally, since we are using the NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series template, our observations are designated as "Time Series Observations" in APT with no parallel observations.