---
id: 2060
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Richard Cartwright"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "3.4"
program_title: "Unraveling the Primordial Constituents and Exogenic Processes That Shaped Callisto's Surface"
type: "GO"
---
# 2060 - Unraveling the Primordial Constituents and Exogenic Processes That Shaped Callisto's Surface
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2060
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                               | Observing Template       | Science Target |
| :---------------------------------- | :----------------------- | :------------- |
| NIRSpec: Valhalla impact basin      | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) CALLISTO   |
| NIRSpec: Asgard impact basin        | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) CALLISTO   |
| NIRSpec: Callisto trailing hemisphere | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) CALLISTO   |

## ABSTRACT

We propose to observe the Galilean moon Callisto with NIRSpec IFU (G395H, 2.9 – 5.3 microns) to improve our understanding of the carbon and nitrogen chemical systems operating on this moon and gain insight into the formation conditions in the Jovian subnebula. We will investigate the nature of CO2 by characterizing its spectral signature and distribution across Callisto and by determining whether primordial deposits of ‘pure' CO2 ice are present in the Valhalla and Asgard impact basins. We will investigate whether a 4.57-micron band detected on Callisto results from nitrogen-rich organics, which might have been delivered in dust grains from Jupiter's irregular satellites. By characterizing 13CO2, a heavy stable isotope of CO2, we will probe Callisto's formation environment. Because Earth's atmosphere is opaque between 4.2 and 4.5 microns, investigation of solid-state CO2 on planetary bodies like Callisto is impossible using ground-based facilities. Similarly, the 4.57-micron band is heavily contaminated by Earth's atmosphere, making assessment of this band highly challenging using ground-based facilities. JWST is therefore the only existing facility that can collect the high quality spectra required to complete this project's objectives. We require 0.07 hours of science time, and 3.39 hours of total charged time, to make our three required observations. Collected NIRSpec spectra will be highly valuable for developing the spectroscopic priorities of the NASA Europa Clipper and ESA JUICE spacecraft missions to the Jovian system, which will both make close passes of Callisto.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to make three observations of Callisto with NIRSpec IFU (G395H/F290LP), requiring 0.07 hours of science time and 3.39 hours of total charged time. By making these three observations, we can collect spectra over the center of Callisto's trailing hemisphere (sub-observer longitude 270 degrees) and over the Valhalla and Asgard impact basins (centered near sub-observer longitudes 55 and 138 degrees, respectively). Each of these three observations requires 0.024 hours of science time and 1.13 hours of charged time.

The range of sub-observer longitudes that are suitable to achieve our science goals are as follows: Callisto's trailing hemisphere, sub-observer longitudes 210 to 330 degrees; Valhalla impact basin, sub-observer longitudes 20 to 90 degrees; Asgard impact basin, sub-observer longitudes 110 to 165 degrees. These sub-observer longitude requirements will be routinely met by JWST during Cycle 1. The angular separation between Callisto and Jupiter will be > 125 arcseconds for all three of our required observations, and scattered light from the disk of Jupiter will be negligible at these large angular distances. Additionally, our required observations must occur when the angular separation between Callisto and the three other Galilean moons Io, Europa, and Ganymede is > 10 arcseconds. These special requirements are included in the APT file.