---
id: 2061
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging  NIRCam/Imaging  NIRSpec/FS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Ryan Foley"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "17.2"
program_title: "Nucleosynthesis, Astrophysics, and Cosmology with IR Observations of a Gravitational Wave Counterpart"
type: "GO,  Disruptive ToO"
---
# 2061 - Nucleosynthesis, Astrophysics, and Cosmology with IR Observations of a Gravitational Wave Counterpart
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2061
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
### 1. List of Labels, Corresponding Observing Template, and Science Targets

**OBSERVATIONS**

| Folder Observation | Label    | Observing Template                | Science Target |
| :----------------- | :------- | :-------------------------------- | :------------- |
| **Epoch 1**        |          |                                   |                |
| 1                  | MIRI     | MIRI Imaging                      | (2) MAG24A     |
| 2                  | NIRCam   | NIRCam Imaging                    | (2) MAG24A     |
| 3                  | NIRSpec  | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy   | (2) MAG24A     |
| **Epoch 2**        |          |                                   |                |
| 4                  | MIRI     | MIRI Imaging                      | (2) MAG24A     |
| 5                  | NIRCam   | NIRCam Imaging                    | (2) MAG24A     |
| 6                  | NIRSpec  | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy   | (2) MAG24A     |
| **Epoch 3**        |          |                                   |                |
| 7                  | MIRI     | MIRI Imaging                      | (2) MAG24A     |
| 8                  | NIRCam   | NIRCam Imaging                    | (2) MAG24A     |
| 9                  | NIRSpec  | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy   | (2) MAG24A     |
| **Epoch 4**        |          |                                   |                |
| 10                 | MIRI     | MIRI Imaging                      | (2) MAG24A     |
| 11                 | NIRCam   | NIRCam Imaging                    | (2) MAG24A     |
| 12                 | NIRSpec  | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy   | (2) MAG24A     |

---

## ABSTRACT

The 2017 discovery of a binary neutron star (BNS) merger in gravitational waves (GWs) and light was a watershed moment. Using unique multi-messenger data, the community made major advances in a broad range of topics from r-process nucleosynthesis to compact-object formation to cosmology. While no other electromagnetic counterpart has yet been discovered, the second example will likely lead to new fundamental discoveries.
Cycle 1 and the next LIGO/Virgo/KAGRA observing run (O4) have high overlap. But simulations suggest that there will be only one O4 event visible to JWST - and it will likely be distant/faint. Nevertheless, the observations proposed here can answer several questions:
What fraction of the heaviest elements come from NS mergers?
What are the progenitors of BNS systems?
How fast is the Universe expanding?
NS mergers produce radioactive, r-process ejecta - a kilonova (KN) - whose spectral-energy distribution depends on its composition. Theory predicts that all KNe have a "red" component peaking in the IR, and tracking its evolution constrains the amount of heavy r-process material produced. The same observations can pinpoint the KN in its galaxy, possibly revealing the origin of the progenitor system, and constrain the system's inclination angle, breaking a degeneracy with distance in the GW data and improving the "standard siren" H0 measurement.
It will be at least 5 years between the first and second GW counterparts. We request a single ToO trigger to make these important JWST observations for the entire community - with no proprietary period - including the first mid-IR observation of a GW counterpart, what will be a signature achievement for JWST.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We request a disruptive target-of-opportunity trigger and a series of 4 epochs of NIRSpec, NIRCam, and MIRI observations of a single gravitational wave counterpart. We request long-term status to have full overlap with the 4th LIGO/Virgo/KAGRA observing run.
Based on detailed simulations, we believe the likelihood of triggering this program is ~66% (if the observing run is 1 year). However, that number depends solely on (1) the detection of a good gravitational wave source that (2) has a high-confidence electromagnetic counterpart and (3) is visible by JWST. If those three criteria are met, we will trigger our program.
We will observe with all 3 instruments in each epoch. With NIRCam, we will use F115W/F444W, F150W/F356W, and F200W/F277W. With MIRI, we will observe in F560W and F770W. The source's spectral features are expected to be broad and we wish to obtain broad spectral coverage, so the NIRSpec prism is appropriate for our observations. We have set exposure times so that we have at least 4 dithered exposures, get reasonable S/N for a variety of expected SEDs, and match between the SW and LW observations.
The cadence is chosen so that we get our first observation as quickly as possible, followed by two observations ~3 and ~7 days after the first (~6 and 10 days after the gravitational wave trigger) to cover the peak luminosity in each filter. An additional epoch ~17 days after the first epoch (20 days after the gravitational wave trigger) is used to track the fading rate.