---
id: 2062
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRISS/SOSS  NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Andrew Mayo  Co-PI: Courtney Dressing"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 22.8
program_title: "Transmission Spectroscopy of the Super-Neptune WASP-166b"
type: "GO"
---
# 2062 - Transmission Spectroscopy of the Super-Neptune WASP-166b
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2062
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                                   | Observing Template                         | Science Target |
| :-------------------------------------- | :----------------------------------------- | :------------- |
| WASP-166b NIRISS SOSS                   | NIRISS Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy | (1) WASP-166   |
| WASP-166b NIRISS SOSS - Repeat of observation 1 | NIRISS Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy | (1) WASP-166   |
| WASP-166b NIRSpec BOTS                  | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series          | (1) WASP-166   |
| WASP-166b NIRSpec BOTS                  | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series          | (1) WASP-166   |

## ABSTRACT

We propose a Small GO program (22.83 hrs Charged Time) to analyze the atmosphere of WASP-166b, a hot, puffy, super-Neptune exoplanet (P = 5.44354 d, Mp = 32.1 ° 1.6 M_earth, Rp = 7.1 ± 0.3 R_earth, Teq = 1270 ± 30 K). We will conduct transmission spectroscopy of one transit of

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will collect transmission spectroscopy observations of the hot super-Neptune WASP-166b. We will observe one transit with NIRISS SOSS Order 1 (0.9 to 2.8 microns) and a second transit with NIRSpec BOTS G395M/F290LP (2.87 to 5.18 microns). For the NIRISS SOSS observation we can use the primary source for target acquisition (TA). For the NIRSpec observation the primary source is too bright to be used for TA. In this case, we have identified an appropriate TA source (2MASS-J09393250-2058249) within the Visit Splitting Distance.

Both of the observations are Time Series Observations, with No Parallels involved. We have used the standard JWST transit observation Dwell Time calculation to determine our Exposure Times (~ 8.95 hrs for each observation). Starting Phase constraints have been determined (using the ExoCTK tools) based on up-to-date values for the planet's orbital period (5.44354 days) and transit duration (~ 3.6 hrs). For the NIRISS SOSS observation we have provided Aperture Phase Angle constraints to avoid spectral contamination from nearby stars (again, using the ExoCTK tools). We have also included an F277W exposure to enable the isolation of the 1st-order spectrum in the order overlap region. The total Charged Time for our proposed observations is 22.83 hours.