---
id: 2064
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: David Rosario  Co-PIs: Sebastian Hoenig and Leonard Burtscher"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "19.3"
program_title: "Dust in the Wind: Testing a New Paradigm for the Nature of AGN Feedback"
type: "GO"
---
# 2064 - Dust in the Wind: Testing a New Paradigm for the Nature of AGN Feedback
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2064
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
**1. OBSERVATIONS Table: Labels, Observing Template, and Science Targets**

| Observation Folder | Label | Observing Template | Science Target        |
| :----------------- | :---- | :----------------- | :-------------------- |
| 1                  | N/A   | MIRI Imaging       | (1) ESO-428-14        |
| 2                  | N/A   | MIRI Imaging       | (9) ESO-428-14-BCKGND |
| 3                  | N/A   | MIRI Imaging       | (2) NGC-2992          |
| 4                  | N/A   | MIRI Imaging       | (10) NGC-2992-BCKGND  |
| 5                  | N/A   | MIRI Imaging       | (3) NGC-3081          |
| 6                  | N/A   | MIRI Imaging       | (11) NGC-3081-BCKGND  |
| 7                  | N/A   | MIRI Imaging       | (4) NGC-3227          |
| 8                  | N/A   | MIRI Imaging       | (12) NGC-3227-BCKGND  |
| 9                  | N/A   | MIRI Imaging       | (5) NGC-4388          |
| 10                 | N/A   | MIRI Imaging       | (13) NGC-4388-BCKGND  |
| 11                 | N/A   | MIRI Imaging       | (6) NGC-5135          |
| 12                 | N/A   | MIRI Imaging       | (14) NGC-5135-BCKGND  |
| 13                 | N/A   | MIRI Imaging       | (7) NGC-5728          |
| 14                 | N/A   | MIRI Imaging       | (15) NGC-5728-BCKGND  |
| 15                 | N/A   | MIRI Imaging       | (8) NGC-7172          |
| 16                 | N/A   | MIRI Imaging       | (16) NGC-7172-BCKGND  |
| 61                 | N/A   | MIRI Imaging       | (6) NGC-5135          |
| 62                 | N/A   | MIRI Imaging       | (14) NGC-5135-BCKGND  |
| 63                 | N/A   | MIRI Imaging       | (7) NGC-5728          |

---

## ABSTRACT

Understanding the ouflows driven by Active Galactic Nuclei (AGN) is of key importance for the modern view of galaxy evolution. A recent paradigm shift in our picture of dust in the vicinity of AGN offers promise for outflow science. We now know that a major part of an AGN's mid-infrared (MIR) dust emission comes from a polar structure that arises in a radiatively-accelerated dusty wind. Ground-based work has shown that similar polar emission is also found hundreds of pc away from the nucleus. If we can confirm that this extended polar emission is fundamentally connected to the pc-scale dusty wind, it will be our best evidence yet for a coherent dynamical connection between nuclear and galaxy-scale outflows.

This proposal will employ MIRI multi-filter imaging to unravel the nature of AGN-heated emission beyond the central 100 parsec. It relies on the unparalleled surface-brightness sensitivity of JWST, a strength that the best ground-based instruments cannot match. Our 8 targets are well-studied nearby Seyferts that already have established polar dust detections, and are carefully selected for their high-resolution ancillary data (HST imaging, AO-assisted and ALMA 3D spectroscopy).

The new JWST data will reveal the structure and colors of the extended dust. We will compare the geometry of the dust to the predictions of hydrodynamic simulations, determine its masses and energy content using state-of-the-art radiative transfer models, and explore its grain composition using novel diagnostics of broad-band spectral features. Along with ancillary kinematic information, we will test the salient hypothesis that the extended dust emission is shaped by a nuclear outflow.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The proposed observations consist of MIRI imager exposures in multiple bands over the central regions of eight (8) nearby Seyfert galaxies. The targets are bright extended galaxies and all have bright point sources that account for most of their central mid-infrared flux.

Our science goals investigate the nature of the low surface-brightness extended warm dust emission.
We require 5 filterbands (F560W, F1000W, F1500W, F1800W, F2100W) for a detailed study of resolved spectral energy distributions, temperature modelling, and dust mass estimation.

We adopt a strategy of short ramps (Ngroup = 5) and many integrations (Nint = 50) to minimise saturation of the central point source, while obtaining sufficiently deep exposures sensitive to the extended emission. We will use the SUB256 imaging subarray, which has a suitable field of view for our goals coupled with a FAST readout mode.

Our science pointings are centered on our targets and take a 4-point dither strategy optimised for point-sources to allow for background estimation, the treatment of detector flatfields, and central point source modelling and subtraction. In order to accurately remove the thermal backgrounds which will affect the three long wavelength bands, we will also take exposures of a nearby background field for all our targets, with an identical readout configuration and a 2-point dither to remove source structure in the field.