---
id: 2072
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "MIRI/LRS  NIRSpec/FS  MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Saurabh Jha"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "19.8"
program_title: "See Through Supernovae: Nebular Spectroscopy of Exploding White Dwarfs"
type: "GO, Non-Disruptive ToO"
---
# 2072 - See Through Supernovae: Nebular Spectroscopy of Exploding White Dwarfs
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2072
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label             | Observing Template             | Science Target   |
| :---------------- | :----------------------------- | :--------------- |
| LRS-Slit          | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (10) SN2021AEFX  |
| NIR PRISM         | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy  | (10) SN2021AEFX  |
| LRS-Slit          | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (10) SN2021AEFX  |
| NIR PRISM         | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy  | (10) SN2021AEFX  |
| LRS-Slit          | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (12) SN2022PUL   |
| NIR PRISM         | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy  | (12) SN2022PUL   |
| LRS-Slit          | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (12) SN2022PUL   |
| NIR PRISM         | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy  | (12) SN2022PUL   |
| MRS               | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (11) SN2022AAIQ |
| NIR G395M+G235M   | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy  | (11) SN2022AAIQ |
| MRS               | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (11) SN2022AAIQ |
| NIR G395M+G235M   | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy  | (11) SN2022AAIQ |

---

## ABSTRACT

Type Ia supernovae (SN Ia) have enormous importance to cosmology and astrophysics, but we still lack a detailed understanding of their progenitor systems and explosion mechanisms. At late times, in the nebular phase, the ejecta become optically thin, allowing us to "see through" the supernova and directly probe its composition, density, temperature, and kinematic structure. Nebular phase observations in the near-infrared and mid-infrared provide unique and powerful constraints on models, including the density-dependent nucleosynthesis of intermediate mass elements, radioactive iron-group elements, and stable iron-group elements. Here we propose to build a legacy, reference sample of JWST near- and mid-infrared nebular spectra of white dwarf supernovae with non-disruptive target-of-opportunity observations. In addition to normal SN Ia, we will also observe the diversity of thermonuclear supernovae, including extreme and peculiar objects. Our data will map progenitor and explosion scenarios to supernova outcomes, explaining different classes and narrowing the allowed model space for normal SN Ia. All data obtained will be made public immediately, with no exclusive access period.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will observe 9 target-of-opportunity white dwarf supernovae (WDSN) with 3 objects per cycle for 3 cycles. Each supernova will be observed in two epochs to measure the spectral evolution and disentangle radioactive and stable elements. All epochs consist of mid-infrared (MIRI) and near-infrared (NIRSpec) observations. For one object per cycle, we will use the MIRI MRS and NIRSpec G235M+G395 to cover a wide wavelength range from 1.7 to 28 microns in both epochs at relatively high spectral resolution. The other two objects per cycle will use MIRI LRS and the NIRSpec prism to obtain spectroscopic coverage from 0.6 to 13 microns at low resolution (R ~ 100). The low-resolution observations can target fainter, more distant WDSN, while the higher-resolution data will target, rarer, more nearby objects.

During the program we will trigger on WDSN from different classes, including normal SN Ia, extreme SN Ia (91bg/86G-like and 91T/99aa-lick objects), and peculiar objects (SN Iax, Ia-CSM, super-Chandra SN Ia, etc.) ensuring that the breadth of the thermonuclear supernova zoo is adequately represented in our sample, while still mainting a focus on SN Ia. We will trigger on objects that are well-observed in ground-based data near maximum light, and nearby enough (with limiting distance depending on the specific type of object) to get adequate S/N to achieve our science goals.

Our nebular-phase observations will be scheduled approximately +150 and +250 days past maximum light for each supernova. Thus, these will be non-disruptive TOOs that can be scheduled months in advance. We will work with the WDSN community to identify the best targets, and all data collected in this program will be made publicly available immediately with no exclusive access period.

Because we are obtaining spectroscopy of supernovae that change with time, the MIRI and NIRSpec observations need to be nearly contemporaneous for each epoch. Thus we have linked those observations as non-interruptible. This also leads to decreased slew overhead so that the charged time will match the allocated time when we trigger.