---
id: 2073
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging  NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Joseph Hennawi  Co-PI: Frederick Davies"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "24.3/6.3"
program_title: "Towards Tomographic Mapping of Reionization Epoch Quasar Light-Echoes with JWST"
type: "GO"
---
# 2073 - Towards Tomographic Mapping of Reionization Epoch Quasar Light-Echoes with JWST
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2073
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
### 1. List of Labels, Observing Template, and Science Targets

| Folder      | Observation | Label                       | Observing Template                  | Science Target                  |
| :---------- | :---------- | :-------------------------- | :---------------------------------- | :------------------------------ |
| J0252-0503  | 1           | J0252 Pre-imaging           | NIRCam Imaging                      | (2) DESJ0252-0503               |
| J0252-0503  | 2           | J0252 p0 v2                 | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy    | (13) J0252-eMPT-target-pointing0 |
| J0252-0503  | 7           | J0252 p1 v2                 | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy    | (14) J0252-eMPT-target-pointing1 |
| J1007+2115  | 3           | J1007 Pre-imaging           | NIRCam Imaging                      | (1) J1007+2115                  |
| J1007+2115  | 6           | J1007_pointing0             | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy    | (10) J1007-eMPT-target-pointing0 |
| J1007+2115  | 8           | J1007_pointing1_upd         | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy    | (12) J1007-eMPT-target-pointing1-upd |

---

## ABSTRACT

The existence of luminous quasars at z>7, just 800 Myr after the Big Bang challenges our understanding of supermassive black hole (SMBH) growth. In the standard picture, there is not enough time to grow their > 10^9 M_sun SMBHs unless one invokes initial seeds >1000 M_sun formed via exotic processes. During the epoch of reionization, the quasar radiation sources a cosmological-scale HII region encoding its radiative history. Careful analysis of these proximity zones along the quasar sightline reveals a puzzling discrepancy. The quasar lifetimes are far too short to grow their SMBHs, implying at z > 7 either: 1) SMBHs grow faster than allowed by general relativity and the Eddington limit, obviating the need for massive seeds, or 2) the bulk of SMBH growth is enshrouded by dust. This degeneracy, inherent to 1D measurements along the quasar line-of-sight, can be broken using background (b/g) galaxies as Ly-alpha absorption probes to tomographically map the 'light-echo' produced by the foreground (f/g) quasar in 3D. We propose to combine NIRCam imaging with a powerful NIRSpec/MSA redshift survey to confirm 60 galaxies around two z > 7 quasars. This will set the stage for future deep integrations to definitively detect their light-echoes providing fundamentally new insights about SMBH growth possible only with JWST. The requested data will also: 1) enable the first measurement of quasar clustering at z > 7, providing a totally independent constraint on the quasar lifetime, 2) characterize the Ly-alpha fraction for a sample of 20 galaxies in the overdense quasar environment, 3) confirm 20 f/g galaxies to be correlated with absorption lines in the b/g quasar spectra.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We target two of the highest redshift quasars known, J0252-0503 at z=7.00 and J1007+2115 at z = 7.51. Both quasars will be observed with NIRCam to obtain imaging to photometrically select galaxies. Galaxies selected from these NIRCam images will be targeted for spectroscopy with the NIRSpec/MSA with the PRISM/CLEAR disperser-filter combination. At fixed depth, the number of galaxies expected for the higher z=7.51 J1007+2115 are slightly lower than for J0252-0503 at z=7.00, so we have increased the NIRCam imaging and NIRSpec/MSA exposure times by factors of 1.5 and 1.6, respectively. Below we summarize the observing plan for each observing mode.

1. NIRCam imaging: Two quasars observed with a total of 16 visits, 7.0hr science, 13hr total charged.
We will observe with two SW-LW setups, F090W-F277W and F115W-444W, with equal exposure time in each. As these images will be used to target galaxies with the NIRSpec/MSA, we adopt the 8NIRSPEC 8-point dither pattern, which results in 8 visits per quasar. Our detector setup is MEDIUM8 readout, with 6 (9) groups per integration, amounting to 623s (945s) per exposure, yielding a total science time 9968s or 2.8 hr (15120 or 4.2hr) and total NIRCAM charged time 20484s or 5.7hr (26331s or 7.3hr), for J0252-0503 (J1007+2115).

2. NIRSpec/MSA Spectroscopy: Two quasars observed with a total of 2 visits, 6.3hr science, 11.3hr total charged.
For the NIRSpec/MSA PRISM spectra of both quasar targets we adopt two MSA configuratinos, and the 3 Shutter Slitlet Nod pattern. For J0252-0503 (J1007+2115), we will perform 1 (2) 100 (80) group integrations at each of the 3 nod positions for each of 2 MSA configurations, giving a total of 6 (12) exposures. This resulting exposure time per MSA configuration is 4420s (7090s) per MSA configuration, or a total science time of 8754s or 2.4hr (14010s or 3.9hr). The total NIRSpec charged time is 17308 or 4.8hr (23514s or 6.5hr).

3. Parallel Observations with NIRCam during primary NIRSpec/MSA spetroscopy: Two quasars observed for a total science time of 5.9hr
We will observe with two SW-LW setups, F090W-F277W and F115W-444W, with equal exposure time in each, which is the same strategy used for our primary NIRCam science observations. For J0252-0503 (J1007+2115) our detector setup is DEEP8 (MEDIUM8) with 7 (7) groups per integration, 1 (3) integrations per NIRSpec nod position, amounting to 1374s (737s) per exposure, and a total science time of 8250s or 2.3hr (13146s or 3.7hr).