---
id: 2078
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/WFSS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Feige Wang  Co-PIs: Joseph Hennawi and Xiaohui Fan"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "61.5/29.6"
program_title: "A SPectroscopic survey of biased halos In the Reionization Era (ASPIRE): A JWST Quasar Legacy Survey"
type: "GO"
---
# 2078 - A SPectroscopic survey of biased halos In the Reionization Era (ASPIRE): A JWST Quasar Legacy Survey
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2078
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
|---|---|---|
| J0109M3047 | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (1) J0109M3047 |
| J0218P0007 | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (3) J0218P0007 |
| J0224M4711 | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (4) J0224M4711 |
| J0226P0302 | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (5) J0226P0302 |
| J0229M0808 | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (6) J0229M0808 |
| J0244M5008 | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (7) J0244M5008 |
| J0305M3150 | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (9) J0305M3150 |
| J0430M1445 | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (12) J0430M1445 |
| J0525M2406 | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (13) J0525M2406 |
| J0706P2921 | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (14) J0706P2921 |
| J0910P1656 | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (15) J0910P1656 |
| J0910P1656 | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (15) J0910P1656 |
| J0910M0414 | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (16) J0910M0414 |
| J0921P0007 | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (17) J0921P0007 |
| J0923P0402 | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (18) J0923P0402 |
| J0923P0753 | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (19) J0923P0753 |
| J1048M0109 | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (20) J1048M0109 |
| J1058P2930 | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (21) J1058P2930 |
| J1104P2134 | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (22) J1104P2134 |
| J1110M1329 | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (23) J1110M1329 |
| J1129P1846 | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (24) J1129P1846 |
| J1526M2050 | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (25) J1526M2050 |
| J1526M2050 | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (25) J1526M2050 |
| J2002M3013 | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (26) J2002M3013 |
| J2102M1458 | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (27) J2102M1458 |
| J2132P1217 | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (28) J2132P1217 |
| J2132P1217 | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (28) J2132P1217 |
| J2232P2930 | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (30) J2232P2930 |

## ABSTRACT

After two decades of search, the first large sample of quasars has been identified in the reionization era. We propose to obtain NIRCam observations of a flux-limited sample of 25 quasars at 6.5<z<=6.8 with extant high resolution ALMA sub-mm observations and deep optical-to-infrared spectra. This program will enable a powerful spectroscopic (WFSS mode) and imaging survey along the entire quasar light cones, resulting in the detection of Hbeta+[OIII] lines of ~350 galaxies at 5.3<z<7 over 240 arcmin^2 sky area, including 45 galaxies physically associated to the central quasars. It will finally resolve the long-standing question of whether the earliest supermassive black holes (SMBHs) reside in the most massive dark matter halos and inhabit large scale galaxy overdensities. We will simultaneously image the host galaxies and close companions of quasars, measure the masses of the central SMBHs and characterize quasar feedback with Hbeta+[OIII] emissions, providing unprecedented constraints on the connection between SMBHs and their hosts as well as their primordial environment. This program will also provide unparalleled constraints on cosmic reionization and galaxy formation by measuring ionizing photon escape fractions of faint galaxies and probing the circumgalactic media of galaxies at z~5-7. In addition, this survey will give the most accurate bright-end galaxy luminosity function and Hbeta+[OIII] equivalent width measurements at z~5-7, complementary to the GTO JADES deep spectroscopic survey. Finally, the coordinated NIRISS parallel imaging will allow us to identify additional galaxies at z~6.5-6.8 to probe quasar-galaxy clustering at larger scales.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will use ~60 hours to carry out NIRCam Wide-Field Slitless Spectroscopy (WFSS) along 25 sightlines of quasars at 6.5<z<=6.8. We will perform spectroscopic observations with R-grism and F356W filters, putting the Hbeta+[OIII] complex of quasars and galaxies associated with them at the sweet spot of WFSS sensitivity. We will also obtain deep imaging in F200W simultaneously in the short wavelength module (SW) to image the quasar host galaxy and their close companions. The direct imaging (for source identification) in LW F356W and SW F115W will be conducted at the end of the exposure series, fully covering the in-field and out-of-field region of the spectroscopic field-of-view. These direct images will be also valueable to constrain the rest-frame optical emissions of quasar host and their close companions. We expect to detect the Hbeta+[OIII] of ~350 star-forming galaxies in the entire quasar light cones at 5.3<z<7 over 240 arcmin^2.

We will use both module A and B to maximize the sky area coverage. The quasar will be put on a carefully designed position (X_offset=-60.5", Y_offset=7.5") in module A to ensure we have a full wavelength coverage for the quasar. We employ the SHALLOW4 readout pattern and 3-point INTRAMODULEX, with 2-point sub-pixel positions for all exposures. The total on-source time per target is 2834s. The combination of deep SW F200W imaging and the direct imaging in F115W and F356W will allow us to use the BzK diagnostic developed for z~2 galaxies (e.g. Daddi etl al. 2004) to characterize the SEDs, stellar masses, and star formation rates of galaxies at 5.3<z<7.

At the same time we will carry out the NIRISS parallel imaging observations with F356W and F444W. At 6.5<~z<~6.8, galaxies exhibit a very blue F356W-F444W color (see Smit et al. (2015) and reference therein for similar experiments with Spitzer/IRAC), due to the contribution of Hbeta+[O III] to the F356W flux combined with the absence of emission lines in the F444W band. These parallel observations will allow us to search for galaxies down to F356W<26.5, probing a larger scale overdensity around the quasars. Although we do not have accurate redshift measurements for these galaxies, the NIRISS observations will allow us to identify the most overdense large scale structures associated to the central quasars and enable constraints on the quasar-galaxy clustering analysis in a larger scale (i.e. reff ~7 arcmin) with photometric redshifts by combing with ground based dropout band observations (~3hours 8-m class telescope time).