---
id: 2079
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "NIRISS/WFSS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Steven Finkelstein  Co-PIs: Casey Papovich and Norbert Pirzkal"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "121.7/96.4"
program_title: "The Next Generation Deep Extragalactic Exploratory Public (NGDEEP) Survey: Feedback in Low-Mass Galaxies from Cosmic Dawn to Dusk"
type: "GO, Treasury"
---
# 2079 - The Next Generation Deep Extragalactic Exploratory Public (NGDEEP) Survey: Feedback in Low-Mass Galaxies from Cosmic Dawn to Dusk
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2079
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :---- | :--------------------------------- | :------------------ |
| 1     | NIRISS Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (1) HUDF-DEEP-F160W |
| 4     | NIRISS Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (1) HUDF-DEEP-F160W |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose NGDEEP: The Webb Deep Extragalactic Exploratory Public Survey. NGDEEP leverages efficient parallel observations over 121.7 hr with NIRISS in the Hubble Ultra Deep Field (HUDF) and NIRCam in the HUDF-Par2 field to constrain the physical processes dominating feedback in galaxies from z~1-12. Observing with JWST in the HUDFs leverages off the deepest optical imaging from Hubble and makes NGDEEP a premier legacy field for both missions.

NGDEEP observes deeply with NIRISS (60-190 ks) to detect faint emission lines (~ 10^-18 cgs) for >1000 mostly low-mass (log M/Msol = 7-9) galaxies. NGDEEP-NIRISS will enable robust constraints on the low-mass end of the mass-metallicity relation and constrain stochastic star-formation by probing H-alpha based star-formation rates to 0.1 Msol/yr in these low-mass galaxies. These measurements will limit chemical enrichment and feedback physical prescriptions in models, which are currently unconstrained at these masses.

In parallel, NGDEEP will obtain the deepest 6-band NIRCam imaging (m~30.6-30.9) on the HUDF-Par2 field. NGDEEP-NIRCam will probe z > 12, and constrain stellar feedback prescriptions in models by precisely measuring the shape of the faint-end of the UV luminosity function at z~10. These data will provide unprecedented morphological detail in galaxies at all redshifts, and reconnoiter the sites of first black hole formation.

Being public immediately, NGDEEP follows in the footsteps of the Hubble deep field programs, enabling the community to explore the power of Webb when pushed to its limits. As a treasury program, we are committed to the rapid reduction and release of high-quality reduced data products and catalogs.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will use NIRISS to obtain WFSS observations of the HUDF. These observations will be performed using the GRISM R and the GRISM C and three cross filters: F115W, F150W, and F200W. We will also split these observations so that data are acquired in both grisms at two different position angles (PA=67 and 70) which are 3 degrees apart and constrained by the NIRCam parallels. We have confirmed that these position angles are observable. We will use the dither pattern 3-POINT-LARGE-NIRCam as it is a good match for our planned NIRCam observations. Total integration times (190, 86, and 63 ks in the F115W, F150W, and F200W WFSS observations) were selected to ensure a uniform emission line sensitivity across all bands. These will be obtained using multiple integrations using the NIS readout pattern with 20 groups per integration. As required with WFSS observations, imaging data will also be obtained using the same filters, using the NIS readout pattern with 5 groups per integration with total integration times of 10.8, 3.6, and 3.6 ks in the F115W, F150W, and F200W filters). We add two extra dithers after each set of dithered grism observations to ensure that there is adequate direct imaging coverage over the maximum possible NIRISS FOV. The direct images were designed to be deep enough to identify the source of faint continuum contaminating sources.

We will observe with NIRCam in parallel, obtaining observations in F115W, F150W, F200W, F277W, F356W, and F444W. These observations constrained to be in two roll angles V3PA=67 and 70, to maximize the NIRCam overlap with the deepest F814W imaging in the UDF Par2 field. Position angles outside of this range will significantly decrease our coverage of the Par2 field, and larger PA offsets (>3 degrees) will reduce the area we cover at a maximum NIRCam depth. The total NIRCam integration times are constrained by the NIRISS observation specifications, and we allocate this time to achieve approximately uniform sensitivity in all filters except F115W, where we increase the time to aid in detecting Lyman-alpha breaks at z>9. Exposures fall into two categories: those matched to NIRISS direct images and those matched to the longer NIRISS grism exposures. For the longer time slots, we use the DEEP8 readout pattern to reduce data volume, 3 integrations per exposure, and either 8 groups/integration (F115W, F444W, F200W, F356W) or 11 groups/integration (F150W and F277W). We pair SW and LW filters based on their sensitivities: F115W with F444W, F150W with F277W, and F200W with F356W. For the exposures tied to direct imaging, we use 4 groups and 1 integration with SHALLOW4, as this setup allows for multiple groups and better cosmic ray rejection in the short available time slots. In the LWC, we allocate all time during these shorter lots to F356W to increase the depth. Our final exposure times are 181 ks (F115W), 172 ks (F444W), and 60-84 ks (F150W, F200W, F277W and F356W).