---
id: 2080
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 6
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Jason Glenn"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "24"
program_title: "Exploration of the Nuclear Jet Impact on the Interstellar Medium in Seyfert Galaxy NGC 4258"
type: "GO"
---
# 2080 - Exploration of the Nuclear Jet Impact on the Interstellar Medium in Seyfert Galaxy NGC 4258
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2080
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :---- | :----------------- | :------------- |
| 1     | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) M-106      |
| 2     | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) M-106      |

## ABSTRACT

Shocks from nuclear jets in galaxies have profound effects on their interstellar medium, injecting energy from the central Active Galactic Nucleus (AGN) which excites and ionizes gas, dissociates molecules, and ablates dust grains. Tracers of the shocked gas used to quantify this energy injection can track the response of the interstellar medium to specific forms of feedback. We propose NIRCam observations of nearby Seyfert galaxy NGC 4258 to map these tracers of ionized gas, neutral gas, molecular gas, and dust in the nucleus and inner galactic disk to quantify the impact of the observed 'anomalous' jet on the interstellar medium. JWST and NIRCam provide a first-ever opportunity to observe the impacts of a nuclear jet through the disk of a galaxy at parsec-scale resolution using infrared diagnostics with little extinction by dust. The comprehensive set of tracers obtained in this program probing the physics of the jet / interstellar medium interaction will provide a detailed picture of feedback in a nearby AGN-hosting galaxy and will inform observations of more distant, high-redshift galaxies whose disks even JWST will be unable to resolve. Early cycle JWST imaging of NGC 4258 also provides excellent archival value to the astronomical community, providing a ‘finder-chart' for specific dynamic regions to be followed-up with future JWST spectroscopic observations.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

NGC 4258 will be imaged with NIRCam in filters corresponding to six spectral features and associated filters for continuum subtraction. [Fe II] (1.644 um), Paschen-alpha (1.875 um), H_2 (2.12 um), Paschen-beta (4.05 um), and molecular CO (4.66 um) will be observed with narrowband filters F164N, F87N, F212N, F405N, F466N and the broad polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon (PAH) 3.3 um emission line will be observed with the medium F335M filter. Medium-band filters F162M, F182M, and F210M will be used for the continuum subtraction of short wavelength narrow-band filters and F300M, F360M, and F430M will be used for continuum subtraction of the long wavelength filters. Three dither positions in a 2 row x 1 column mosaic will be used to image the extent of the anomalous jet and adjacent unimpacted regions of the galactic disk at any scheduable position angle. The integration times are designed to obtain sufficient signal-to-noise ratios to detect lines in the faintest portions of the inner disk while not saturating in the nucleus, resulting in a total charged time of 24 hours.