---
id: 2084
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/GTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Alexis Brandeker"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 25
program_title: "Is It Raining Lava in the Evening on 55 Cancri e?"
type: "GO"
---
# 2084 - Is It Raining Lava in the Evening on 55 Cancri e?
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2084
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                       | Observing Template       | Science Target |
| :-------------------------- | :----------------------- | :------------- |
| Even occultation            | NIRCam Grism Time Series | (1) 55CNC      |
| Odd occultation             | NIRCam Grism Time Series | (1) 55CNC      |
| Even occultation            | NIRCam Grism Time Series | (1) 55CNC      |
| Odd occultation             | NIRCam Grism Time Series | (1) 55CNC      |
| Repeat Obs 4 - Odd occultation | NIRCam Grism Time Series | (1) 55CNC      |

## ABSTRACT

The nearby hot super-Earth planet 55 Cancri e shows variable occultation depths, i.e. variable amounts of dayside emission. The origin of these variations could lie in several phenomena, intrinsically dependent on the planetary atmospheric properties or surface features. We aim to identify the origin of this variation, and specifically test whether it originates from different sides of the planet being visible due to a 3:2 spin-orbit resonance. Even for an atmosphereless "bare rock", this asynchronous rotation would produce a magma pool and mineral vapors over the day side that depend on the local surface conditions, giving rise to variability. If the surface is dominated by silicates, as is likely for a hot rocky planet, the extreme temperatures of the day side would produce detectable amounts of SiO gas from the vaporization of SiO2 in the morning that subsequently rains out and recrystallizes back to SiO2 in the evening. If the planet is in a 3:2 spin-orbit resonance, every second occultation would show the same face of the planet with the emission highly correlated. The planet could also be covered by a massive atmosphere that provides the thermal inertia, even in the case that the variability is unrelated to asynchronous rotation, to explain the observed redistribution of heat. Spectral features, potentially variable, may then be detected. We thus aim to answer the following questions: 1) Is there a massive atmosphere or is it essentially a bare rock with vaporized SiO? 2) If a bare rock, can the variability be explained by asynchronous rotation? This will help us understand the origin and nature of hot super-Earths, of which 55 Cnc e is the best representative.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to observe four occultations of the hot super-Earth 55 Cancri e using a grism time series with NIRCam+F444W. This is the only mode that is not saturated by this very bright naked-eye star.
Since we want to test the hypothesis that the planet shows alternate sides between each occultation, we put time constraints to observe 2 "even" occultations and 2 "odd", so that both sides of the planet get observed. Moreover, since the surface features can be expected to only be semi-stable, we want to observe all occultations close in time, within two weeks to avoid the surface changing too much. Hence we put additional constraints on the time between the first and last visit. This should not be too difficult to schedule since the orbital period is only 0.74 days.