---
id: 2091
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging  MIRI/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Maria Drout"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "9.3"
program_title: "Detecting the Synthesis of the Heaviest Elements with Photometry of a Kilonova in the Optically Thin Phase"
type: "GO"
---
# 2091 - Detecting the Synthesis of the Heaviest Elements with Photometry of a Kilonova in the Optically Thin Phase
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2091
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label   | Observing Template | Science Target |
|---------|--------------------|----------------|
| NIRCam  | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) KILONOVA   |
| MIRI    | MIRI Imaging       | (1) KILONOVA   |
| NIRCam  | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) KILONOVA   |
| MIRI    | MIRI Imaging       | (1) KILONOVA   |
| NIRCam  | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) KILONOVA   |
| MIRI    | MIRI Imaging       | (1) KILONOVA   |
| NIRCam  | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) KILONOVA   |
| MIRI    | MIRI Imaging       | (1) KILONOVA   |

---

## ABSTRACT

Approximately half of all elements heavier than iron form through rapid-neutron capture. Yet the cosmic origin of these “r-process” elements has been debated for over 60 years. In 2017, the discovery of a kilonova associated with the gravitational wave source GW170817 partially unraveled this mystery---firmly establishing that neutron star mergers do synthesize r-process elements. However, in this discovery's wake many questions remain. In particular, it is unclear whether GW170817 synthesized any of the heaviest “third peak” or actinide elements. As a result, we are still uncertain whether NS mergers are the only – or even the dominant – site of r-process production. We propose to use JWST/NIRCam and JWST/MIRI to tackle this open question by observing a new kilonova discovered during LIGO/Virgo/KAGRA Observing Run 4. We will carry out our observations between ~30-120 days post-merger when the ejecta is optically thin. During this nebular phase, the bolometric luminosity will trace the instantaneous heating rate due to radioactive decay; with decline rates that vary depending how far up the periodic table the r-process proceeded. Constraining the bolometric luminosity at these epochs requires broad-band coverage between ~1-10 microns to depths of ~25-28 mag (AB). Hence, JWST is the only facility capable of carrying out these observations.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This proposal will perform NIRCam and MIRI photometry of a new kilonova discovered within 150 Mpc during LIGO/Virgo/KAGRA Observing Run 4. Observations will be carried out at +30, +50, +80 and +120 days post-merger. This is a non disruptive ToO, with observations starting at least 20 days post-activation. At each epoch, images will be obtained in F090W, F150W2, F322W2, and F444W (NIRCam) as well as F770W (MIRI). Finally, a set of references images in the same filters will be obtained during Cycle 2 once the kilonova has faded (~250 days post-merger).