---
id: 2104
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Daniel Harsono  Co-PIs: Per Bjerkeli, Lars Kristensen, Jon Ramsey, Jes Jorgensen and others*"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "5.3"
program_title: "Mapping the Hot Gas Where an Outflow Is Launched from a Protoplanetary Disk"
type: "GO"
---
# 2104 - Mapping the Hot Gas Where an Outflow Is Launched from a Protoplanetary Disk
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2104
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                                                     | Observing Template         | Science Target        |
| :-------------------------------------------------------- | :------------------------- | :-------------------- |
| Mapping of ro-vibrational molecular lines and atomic lines | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) IRAS-04365+2535 |
| Ro-vibrational line of C                                  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) IRAS-04365+2535 |

---

## ABSTRACT

The most prominent manifestation of early star formation is energetic feedback in the form of a protostellar jet and/or wind, emanating from the disk and the central few au near the new star. Outflows remove the angular momentum from infalling disk material and assist the accretion process through the disk. Although there have been many theoretical and numerical studies on outflow launching, it has proven very challenging to observationally measure the physical conditions at the base of the outflow. In particular, the proposed mechanisms predict high gas temperatures (> 1000 K) in the vicinity of the launching region. Meanwhile, the Atacama Large Millimeter/submillimeter Array has succesfully observed the launching of the cooler molecular outflows down to au scales in protoplanetary disks. One such a well-studied object is the Class I protostar TMC1A. This proposal aims to spatially map the hot atomic and molecular gas towards the TMC1A protostar and disk using JWST in order to understand the physical conditions of the launching region. In this program, we will target the ro-vibrational lines of CO, HCN, H2O, and H2, as well as a set of atomic H lines and one [Fe II] line, that will permit us to examine the accretion and high-temperature jet, respectively. Previous observations have detected (but not spatially resolved) some of the hot molecular lines towards TMC1A, ensuring the feasibility of this program. With the spatial information, sensitivity, and wavelength coverage of NIRSPEC IFU on JWST, these observations will significantly advance our understanding of the physical conditions in the outflow launching region of young protostellar systems.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to study the physical conditions at the base of the outflow launching region. This observation uses the NIRSPEC IFU to cover various molecular and atomic lines from 1 to 5 microns at the highest spectral resolution. The spectral resolution is 2700 at G140H, G235H, and G395G gratings. The TMC1A dis, the base of its outflow, and its immediate surrounds fit within the NIRSPEC IFU field of view and thus a single pointing centered on the protostar is sufficient.

The main target is the low-mass young stellar object TMC1A. It is a bright source at 4.8 microns but heavily extincted such that it is very dim at 1 micron. The NRSRAPID readout patter is chosen for both 235H and G395H gratings to ensure the detector is not saturated. Within less than 1 hour, the S/N is easily above 500. With the sensitivity provided by JWST NIRSPEC, we will be able to search for faint atomic and molecular lines that were not detected with other facitilies. Furthermore, we will be able to spatiall resolve the emission lines.

We will use CYCLING DITHER to mitigate the leakage from the MSA. There is a sufficient blank sky in the coverage of the IFU to perform sky and background subtraction.