---
id: 2110
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Mariska Kriek  Co-PI: Aliza Beverage"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "22.9"
program_title: "Ultra-deep Continuum Spectroscopy of Quiescent Galaxies at 1.0<z<2.5: Chemical Abundances and Stellar Kinematics"
type: "GO"
---
# 2110 - Ultra-deep Continuum Spectroscopy of Quiescent Galaxies at 1.0<z<2.5: Chemical Abundances and Stellar Kinematics
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2110
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label              | Observing Template            | Science Target               |
| :----------------- | :---------------------------- | :--------------------------- |
| SUSPENSE_v10_visit1 | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (6) SUSPENSE v10 correct coords |
| SUSPENSE_v10_visit2 | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (6) SUSPENSE v10 correct coords |

---

## ABSTRACT

One of the most remarkable discoveries from the past two decades in extra-galactic astronomy is the finding of a large population of high-redshift galaxies with very low star formation rates. The existence of these quiescent galaxies has yet to be explained, largely due to the difficulty of obtaining high-quality spectra. Here we propose to remedy this situation by obtaining deep rest-frame optical spectra of a sample of quiescent galaxies at 1.0<z<2.5 with JWST/NIRSpec. Exploiting the large area of the UltraVISTA-COSMOS-DASH field we have identified an exceptional pointing for which we can observe 16 bright quiescent galaxies simultaneously. The resulting spectra will be of unparalleled quality, enabling accurate measurements of numerous Balmer and metal absorption lines. This program will yield the first statistical sample of 1.0<z<2.5 quiescent galaxies with robust stellar ages, metallicities, and chemical abundance patterns. Furthermore, the spatial resolution enables spatially resolved kinematics. These unprecedented measurements will (i) reveal when, how fast, and how efficient these galaxies formed their stars, (ii) constrain the importance of feedback in their star-forming phase, (iii) provide new insight into the physical mechanism responsible for quenching star formation, (iv) show if and how galaxies grow after becoming quiescent, and (v) constrain when and how early-type galaxies obtained their current dynamical structures. We will also observe faint quiescent and star-forming galaxies, enabling environmental studies and unique investigations relying on ultra-faint emission lines. Given the extraordinary nature of this dataset, we waive the proprietary time.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to obtain deep continuum, rest-frame optical, medium-resolution spectroscopy of bright, quiescent galaxies at 1.0<z<2.5, using NIRSpec-MSA and the G140M-F100LP dispersion-filter combination. Fainter quiescent galaxies and star-forming galaxies at similar and higher redshift are used as fillers. HST imaging (F160W and F814W) has been used for the astrometry, and thus no pre-imaging is needed.

We will use 3-shutter slits and a (custom) 2-position nodding pattern. For primary targets we extend the slits to 4 or 5 shutters, where possible. We will also apply a fixed dither of 1 shutter in the dispersion direction, to minimize impacts of detector defects. Our current mask design does not allow targets in areas affected by open shutters. Our field can be observed for a limited PA range (64-85 degrees and 234-254 degrees). Our most optimal mask has a PA of 250.02, and targets 16 bright quiescent galaxies. However, due to the high density of quiescent targets, nearly all PAs will target 14 or more quiescent galaxies.

---