---
id: 2113
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRISS/SOSS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Nestor Espinoza"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 15.6
program_title: "Exploring the Morning and Evening Limbs of a Transiting Exoplanet"
type: "GO"
---
# 2113 - Exploring the Morning and Evening Limbs of a Transiting Exoplanet
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2113
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                                   | Observing Template                     | Science Target |
| :-------------------------------------- | :------------------------------------- | :------------- |
| Background observation 1, 40 arcsec offset | NIRISS Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy | (1) CD-38-2551 |
| Background observation 2, 20 arcsec offset | NIRISS Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy | (1) CD-38-2551 |
| Background observation 3, -20 arcsec offset | NIRISS Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy | (1) CD-38-2551 |
| Background observation 4, -40 arcsec offset | NIRISS Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy | (1) CD-38-2551 |
| WASP-63 transit                         | NIRISS Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy | (1) CD-38-2551 |

## ABSTRACT

In the past decade, transiting exoplanets have been one of the most successful in terms of the atmospheric characterization of exoplanets. The technique of transmission spectroscopy - the wavelength-dependent change in the planetary radii due to opacity sources in its atmosphere - in particular, has been one of the main workhorses of the field in terms of providing constraints on the atmospheric elemental abundances in gas giant exoplanets. To date, this technique relies on one simple, key assumption: the terminator region we observe during transit is homogeneous. Here, we aim at putting this assumption to the test by exploring transit lightcurve asymmetries indicative of inhomogeneities between the morning an evening limbs in one of the most promising targets to search for this effect. Due to the exquisite spectrophotometric precision enabled by the James Webb Space Telescope, our observations will be able to constrain wavelength-dependent morning-to-evening depth differences down to 50 ppm, and extract the very first near-infrared transmission spectrum of the morning and evening of an exoplanet. This unprecedented set of spectra will provide strong constraints on the temperature and/or cloudiness levels at the limbs, providing a benchmark dataset with which to put modelling techniques such as Global Circulation Models to the test.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The Time-Series Observation (TSO) proposed in this work aims to target a primary transit of the exoplanet WASP-63b using NIRISS/SOSS with SUBSTRIP256, in order to capture both Order 1 and 2 spectra. The readout mode to use will be the NISRAPID mode. The exposure consists of a 1493-integration TSO exposure with 4 groups per integration using SUBSTRIP256 and the GR700XD grism, which is followed by a 15-integration TSO exposure with the same setup as before, but using the F277W filter, which we are requesting in order to isolate Order 1, which will be useful to inform spectral extraction algorithms. Given the periodic nature of the transits of WASP-63b, these observations have a phase-constraint with a 1-hour window; the ephemerides inputted in APT are the latest ones at the time of writing, and include ephemerides updated thanks to photometry from the Transiting Exoplanet Survey Satellite (TESS), which we estimate should have an uncertainty of only 2-3 minutes in the range from July 2022 to July 2023. Furthermore, we have in addition constrainted the set of possible Position Angles for our observations based on possible contaminating sources nearby our target. We request no parallel observations during our TSO exposures.
The TSO exposures mentioned above are preceded by a Target Acquisiton exposure which we have proposed to perform using the same science target (WASP-63). These will be obtained with the SOSSFAINT acquisition mode and the NISRAPID reout mode. According to our ETC estimates, using the NISRAPID readout partern and a single integration composed of 19 groups, we should reach a signal-to-noise ratio of over 300, which is excellent for centroiding purposes.
Updates on August 19, 2023:
- Modified RA, DEC and proper motions from Gaia DR3.
- Removed and modified some PA's, updated with new contamination overlap models; still consistent with the current planned window in September.
- Because background scaling has been an issue for some NIRISS/SOSS programs, we have decided to add background observations to our program (Observations 1-4). Each background exposure is a 4 group, 10-integration exposure in FULL. No TA is taken in this exposure; they are made non-interruptible and linked through sequences with the TSO. This charges an extra 1.2-hours to the program.
- We decreased the number of integrations of the TSO from 1629 to 1493. This reduced the time-on-target from 12.44 hours to 11.4 hours -- matching the difference to account for the extra background observations in the total charged time to the program. This still leaves us with plenty of time pre and post-transit. The duration of the transit event is 5.34 hours, so this new time-on-target would account for 3.03 hours pre transit and 3.03 hours post transit if the event is properly centered (i.e., total of 6.06 hours out-of-transit baseline).
- The TSO period and time-of-transit center have been updated to those published by Patel & Espinoza (2022AJ....163..228P). This has an uncertainty at 1-sigma of 49.5 seconds for September 29, 2023. In addition, the phase constraints have been updated on the TSO to match the new pre-mid transit time expected on target (11.4 / 2 = 5.7 hours) using the ExoCTK phase-constraint tool.