---
id: 2114
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Chris Ashall  Co-PIs: Peter Hoeflich and Eddie Baron"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "21.1"
program_title: "MIR Spectroscopy of Type Ia Supernovae: The Key To Unlocking Their Explosions and Element Production"
type: "GO, Non-Disruptive ToO"
---
# 2114 - MIR Spectroscopy of Type Ia Supernovae: The Key To Unlocking Their Explosions and Element Production
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2114
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label               | Observing Template                      | Science Target    |
| :------------------ | :-------------------------------------- | :---------------- |
| 100-200d SNe Ia     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy     | (4) 2022XKQ       |
| 400-500d medium     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy     | (3) 2021AEFX      |
| LRS 2021aefx        | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy        | (3) 2021AEFX      |

## ABSTRACT

Type Ia Supernovae (SNe Ia) are the thermonuclear explosions of white dwarf stars, which originate from binary star systems and synthesize roughly half of the iron-group elements in the universe. The nature of the progenitors and the explosion mechanism is an open question. Understanding SNe Ia is foundational for: the late stages of stellar evolution, the origins of the elements, and controlling systematic errors related to the use of SNe Ia as cosmological rulers. Observational estimates of the nuclear burning products in SNe Ia probe the progenitor and explosion. JWST provides an entirely new window of opportunity as there are spectral lines with unique information in the MIR. We request 21.1 hours of time to obtain 3 Medium resolution MIRI spectra 100--500d past maximum light for the nearest SNe Ia discovered in 2021-2022. The progenitor and explosion mechanism will be constrained using spectra acquired in three physical regimes: 1) 100-200d which measures radioactive Co and the intermediate mass elements, 2) 200-300d where hard gamma-rays, non-local effects, and the appearance of forbidden lines of neutron rich elements probe the progenitor density, 3) 400-500d where positrons deposit energy locally revealing the radioactive cobalt distribution. One of goals of JWST is to reveal the origin of heavy elements and how they feedback into the universe. The sensitivity and resolution of MIRI produce resolved line profiles, probing the element distribution. MIRI spectra will also show many isolated forbidden lines of isotopes with known wavelengths. The atomic physics learned will provide insight into many transients to come.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We request ~21.1 hours of time to obtain 3 Medium resolution MIRI spectra of SNe Ia between 100-500d past maximum light. As our targets are not yet known we request non disruptive ToO time. For all phases we will use the medium resolution spectrometer on MIRI, and observe in all sub-bands (A, B & C) and all channels. Our target acquisition images will be taken in F1000W, and we will obtain simultaneous imaging in F770W, F1000W and F1130W. The third MIRI spectra will be split into three observations, one per sub-band, to ensure the data volume limits are not exceeded.