---
id: 2123
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Susan Kassin"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "74.3"
program_title: "A Pathfinder for JWST Spectroscopy: Deep High Spectral Resolution Maps of Galaxies over 1<z<6"
type: "GO"
---
# 2123 - A Pathfinder for JWST Spectroscopy: Deep High Spectral Resolution Maps of Galaxies over 1<z<6
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2123
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :---- | :----------------- | :------------- |
| 605   | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (4) 605        |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose deep, spatially resolved NIRSpec MSA near-IR spectroscopy of ~40 galaxies at redshifts 1<z<6 in the Hubble Ultra Deep Field. We will use the higher resolution R=2700 grating and "slitlet stepping" across the galaxies to obtain spatially resolved spectroscopy of emission and absorption lines in 2-D. Slitlet stepping exploits the multiplex and sensitivity advantages of the MSA to carry out a survey in a vastly shorter time than a large IFU sample would require.

The spectroscopic maps of restframe optical and near-UV lines will break new ground in measuring evolution of galaxy outflows, and the evolution of rotation vs. disordered motions, as massive galaxies evolve from an era dominated by filamentary cold-mode accretion to primarily hot-mode accretion and AGN feedback. These high-S/N spatial maps will enable: comparisons of the kinematics of gas and stars; Balmer-decrement measurements for both the broad (wind) and narrow (ISM) components of emission lines; spatially resolved nebular diagnostics of metallicity, excitation, and ISM pressure; AGN and shock signatures in both the centers and extended regions of galaxies; and star-formation and extinction maps from multiple spectroscopic indicators. These observations will be made public immediately, and will serve as a pathfinder for the JWST community to explore the revolutionary science return of deep JWST spectroscopy of high-z galaxies at high spatial and spectral resolution.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The NIRSpec Micro-Shutter Array (MSA) in the G235H grating will be used to create IFU-like maps of 40 galaxies in a single pointing, using new mode which we call "slitlet stepping." Depending on the galaxy size, 1-8 unique slitlets are designed to cover the entire galaxy. The slitlets also vary in length from 1 to 6 shutters to cover the entire galaxy. The total exposure time for each galaxy is 57 hours. Targets at higher redshift are fainter and smaller, and fewer slitlets are applied to them to increase the exposure time per slitlet. We strongly recommend the reviewers to refer to Figures 4 & 5 in Technical Justification of our proposal for more details about slitlet stepping.

We implement the slitlet stepping by adding a one-shutter offset along the dispersion direction to the pointing for each step. There are 8 slitlet steps in total, which correspond to the 8 MSA configurations in the APT (c1step1...8). We design one unique MSA configuration for each slitstep because, as the pointing changes from step to step, we need to recenter the slitlets onto some small galaxies which are to be covered by <8 unique slitelets (refer to Figure 5). Additionally, each of the 8 slitlet steps is dithered by a small amount (0.05") in the dispersion (0.185 shutter) and cross-dispersion directions (0.094 shutter). The dithers are added to the pointing offsets on top of the slitlet stepping in the Configurations/Pointings table. Each of MSA configuration has 4 dithers. This leads to a total of 32 exposures.

Because we are doing slitlet stepping, some galaxies may not show as being inside the opened shutters when viewed in the MSA Planning Tool. This is because the input RAs and DECs represent the coordinates of galaxy centers, and some of the slitlet steps observe their outer parts. We have verified that the opened shutters do indeed land on the parts of these galaxies that we want to observe using the archival HST WFC3/F160W mosaics. A total of 40 objects will be observed.

An example pointing with a placeholder NIRSPEC APA is submitted, but our APA can vary between 25 and 210 degrees (North = 0 deg and East = 90 deg). A Special Requirement is submitted which states this.The target list will be updated by us and the MSA shutters will be replanned once we are offered a final APA.