---
id: 2127
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Michael Kelley"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "11.1"
program_title: "Frozen Oort Cloud Comet Hale-Bopp"
type: "GO"
---
# 2127 - Frozen Oort Cloud Comet Hale-Bopp
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2127
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label             | Observing Template        | Science Target               |
| :---------------- | :------------------------ | :--------------------------- |
| Photometry        | NIRCam Imaging            | (1) HALE-BOPP                |
| Spectrum          | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (2) HALE-BOPP-UPDATED-ORBIT  |

## ABSTRACT

We propose to observe the Great Comet C/1995 O1 (Hale-Bopp) at 46 au from the Sun, distances where many surface ices are thermally stable. With a modest 11.2 hr program, a near-infrared spectrum can be obtained, providing key physical information on the composition of cold cometary surfaces. This wavelength range contains diagnostic spectral features from water, CO2, and methanol ice. Such data would enable studies of cometary volatiles in a unique context: on the surface of an Oort cloud comet at distances equivalent to the Kuiper Belt. No other observatory can spectroscopically observe Hale-Bopp in the near-infrared, and no other comet will be observable at this distance in JWST's lifetime. This, and future studies of cometary surfaces with JWST, will lay the groundwork that, together with spacecraft missions to comets, will enable us to assess cometary nuclei under a wide range of physical circumstances.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Observations are designed to observe the surface of comet C/1995 O1 (Hale-Bopp) at 46 au from the Sun. The comet is expected to be a point source, and very faint. The main goal is to test for the presence of water ice absorption features at 1.5, 2.0, and 3 micron, and, if present, characterize the physical properties of the ice. NIRSpec will provide a suitable spectrum up to at least 3 micron with the IFU in prism mode. NIRCam photometry provides spectral flux measurements at 1.8 and 3.6 micron, and astrometry to refine the orbit.
NIRSpec IFU mode is chosen to avoid target acquisition failures on this r=25.7 mag moving target. Without a target acquision, we chose medium scale cycling to avoid dithering the target outside the field-of-view. We anticipate a 1-sigma ephemeris uncertainty near 0.07".
Special Requirements:
- Timing to place NIRCam observations before the NIRSpec observations for pre-spectroscopic astrometry.
- Timing for spectroscopy near the end of the first observing window in cycle 1 (the comet is getting fainter by about 0.2 mag/year).
- Offsets to place the target near the center of NIRCAM module B3.