---
id: 2130
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging  NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Janice Lee"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "27.9"
program_title: "Embedded Star Formation in Nearby Galaxies: The Advent of Parsec Scale Studies beyond the Magellanic Clouds"
type: "GO"
---
# 2130 - Embedded Star Formation in Nearby Galaxies: The Advent of Parsec Scale Studies beyond the Magellanic Clouds
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2130
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                        | Observing Template | Science Target           |
| :--------------------------- | :----------------- | :----------------------- |
| NGC0598 MIRI Prime           | MIRI Imaging       | (2) NGC0598MIRI          |
| NGC0598 MIRI BRIG HT1 Prime  | MIRI Imaging       | (10) NGC0598MIRI-BRIGHT1 |
| NGC0598 MIRI BRIG HT2 Prime  | MIRI Imaging       | (11) NGC0598MIRI-BRIGHT2 |
| NGC0300 MIRI Prime           | MIRI Imaging       | (3) NGC0300MIRI          |
| NGC7793 MIRI Prime           | MIRI Imaging       | (1) NGC7793MIRI          |
| NGC0598SKY MIRIP rime        | MIRI Imaging       | (12) NGC0598SKYMIRI      |
| NGC0300SKY MIRIP rime        | MIRI Imaging       | (13) NGC0300SKYMIRI      |
| NGC7793SKY MIRIP rime        | MIRI Imaging       | (14) NGC7793SKYMIRI      |
| NGC0300 NIRCam Pri me        | NIRCam Imaging     | (9) NGC0300NIRCAM        |
| NGC7793 NIRCam Pri me        | NIRCam Imaging     | (7) NGC7793NIRCAM        |
| NGC0598 NIRCam Pri me Repeat | NIRCam Imaging     | (8) NGC0598NIRCAM        |
| NGC0598 NIRCam Pri me        | NIRCam Imaging     | (8) NGC0598NIRCAM        |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose to begin the mid-infrared parsec-scale study of dust-enshrouded stellar populations in galaxies beyond the Magellanic Clouds. Building on methods established by Spitzer observations of the SMC and LMC, we will identify and characterize massive young stellar objects (MYSOs) and embedded star clusters, using NIRCam and MIRI imaging at 2, 4.4, 10, and 21 um. We will observe an area of ~2-3 sq. kpc covering spiral features in each of 3 galaxies (M33, NGC 300, NGC 7793) at distances of ~1, 2, 3 Mpc. In each galaxy, we expect to find >~150 clusters dominated by emission from individual MYSOs. Study of this early embedded phase, which lasts at most 2-3 Myr, hold critical clues to the conditions that ignite and extinguish star formation. Together with existing HST and ALMA CO imaging, we will build a foundational dataset to answer key questions on star formation at parsec scales, including the timescales for progression from molecular cloud to embedded cluster to revealed cluster; the rate and efficiency of star formation; and the form of the star formation law.

This program will serve as a pathfinder for study of the physical properties of MYSOs and embedded stellar clusters out to a few Mpc, and for interpretation of MIR imaging of clusters and clumps at larger distances. New SED modeling techniques are needed to interpret the photometry, which we are developing and will release as part of this program. The data broadly enable studies of all other objects tiny, dusty, and mid-infrared bright, including evolved stars. We thus will waive the proprietary period to facilitate community science and planning for spectroscopic and other follow-up studies.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will image well-studied spiral features in 3 nearby galaxies (M33, NGC 300, NGC 7793) using deep NIRCAM and MIRI four-band imaging at 2, 4.4, 10, and 21 microns. The target areas to be imaged were chosen to maximize overlap with HST+ALMA archival data.

To adequately sample the spiral features, we require 15, 3, and 1 MIRI pointing(s) in M33, NGC 300, and NGC 7793, respectively. NIRCAM imaging is planned over the same area.

We use F1000W and F2100W filters for MIRI observations of all targets. For NIRCAM imaging, we use F200W and F444W for NGC 300 and NGC 7793. For M33, we substitute F210M and F430M to help mitigate against bright object saturation concerns.

Total integration times for M33/NGC 300/NGC 7793 are
NIRCAM 387/344/600 sec
MIRI 278/666/1998 sec (F1000W) and 222/1332/3996 sec (F2100W)

To enable detection of faint sources without exceeding bright limits, we adopt a hybrid approach for both NIRCAM and MIRI imaging. For NIRCAM we will combine short exposures (with the fastest readout, RAPID) and longer observations (with slower readouts, BRIGHT2) to maximize recovered dynamic range in final drizzled image products. For MIRI we use a FULL/FAST/Ngroups=5 strategy, but in addition specifically target problematic bright areas (only two, both in M33) with devoted short/fast readout subarray (SUB256) observations in addition to our general mosaic.

The MIRI 4-point dither pattern, optimized for analysis of point sources, is used. For NIRCAM, INTRAMODULEBOX4 primary dither is used to maximize the area the area observed at full depth in NGC 300 and NGC 7793. Since the target region is much larger in M33, we use FULL/3TIGHT for the primary dither pattern, with 2 subpixel positions to build depth. In general, subpixel dithering is unnecessary because the PSF is well-sampled at F200W and F444W.

Mosaicing in M33 employs a MIRI 6x4 grid, for which we have only retained 15 tiles that probe our target area. For NGC 300 we require a 3x1 MIRI mosaic to cover the arm. Ample area in NGC 7793 is obtained in a single MIRI pointing. For MIRI mosaics, we use 10% tile overlap, and a 14% row shift (in the case of NGC 300). NIRCAM mosaicing is needed in M33 (5x1 grid) and NGC 300 (1x2 grid). In M33, row overlap is 8%; in NGC 300, column overlap is 58%. The later provides contiguous coverage in NGC 300 along the mosaic column-oriented extent.

To map the spiral arm features, we impose orientation constraints. Each orientation constraint provides at least 20-day-wide observing windows. Our requirements are as follows:
M33: MIRI FULL mosaic = 242-246 aperture PA, NIRCAM mosaic = 239-240 aperture PA
M33: MIRI SUB256 observations of two bright areas = unconstrained in PA
NGC 300: MIRI mosaic = 292-298 aperture PA, NIRCAM mosaic = 22-27 aperture PA
NGC 7793: MIRI 271-279.5 aperture PA, NIRCAM = 34-40 aperture PA
Mosaics tiles in each galaxy are constrained to be in a non-interuptable sequence, as are the two MIRI subarray pointings for bright regions in M33.