---
id: 2134
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Kohji Tsumura"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "24.3"
program_title: "Absolute Brightness Measurement of the Extragalactic Background Light Using Gallilean Satellites Eclipse Occultations"
type: "GO"
---
# 2134 - Absolute Brightness Measurement of the Extragalactic Background Light Using Gallilean Satellites Eclipse Occultations
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2134
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label              | Observing Template | Science Target       |
| :----------------- | :----------------- | :------------------- |
| Europa eclipse     | NIRCam Imaging     | (4) EUROPA-OFFSET    |
| Europa eclipse     | NIRCam Imaging     | (4) EUROPA-OFFSET    |
| Ganymede eclipse   | NIRCam Imaging     | (5) GANYMEDE-OFFSET-V3 |
| Ganymede eclipse   | NIRCam Imaging     | (6) GANYMEDE-OFFSET-V4 |

## ABSTRACT

The Extragalactic Background Light (EBL) as an integrated history of the early universe is important for the study of unresolved star formation. However, previous EBL measurements suffer from residual contamination from strong foregrounds, the zodiacal light (ZL). We propose to observe Galilean satellites eclipsed in the Jovian shadow as occulters to detect the absolute EBL intensity without any ZL uncertainty. ZL originates inside the Jovian orbit; since the Galilean satellites in eclipse shield all light beyond the Jovian orbit, they should be detected as 'dark spots' if the strong EBL implied by previous observations exists. The intensity deficit of this dark spot relative to the surrounding sky directly measures the brightness of EBL, free from any assumptions about ZL. The observational condition for EBL is perfect at JWST Cycle-1 season because Jupiter locates at high Galactic latitude (|b| > 40 deg) and deep eclipses will occure, which is the opportunity once in 6 years. Therefore, observations in this Cycle-1 are highly required.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Our observational targets are the Galilean satellites (Europa, Ganymede and Callisto), which are non-stationary targets. Since our method relies on specific astronomical events, chances for observation are limited and timing is absolutely critical; in particular, observations must begin at the specified time. The basic information of eclipse (time and position of Jupiter andthe Galillean satellites) are provided by the Natural Satellites Ephemeride Server MULTISAT (http://www.sai.msu.ru/neb/nss/nssphe0he.htm) and the JPL-HORIZONS System (http://ssd.jpl.nasa.gov/horizons.cgi). For example, in a Ganymede eclipse case on Jun. 2nd, 2022, the diameter of Ganymede is 1.30 arcsec circle, it is located at 4-39 arcsec from Jovian limb, and its relative speed to the Jupiter is 2.6 mas/sec.

Our strategy is to measure the EBL brightness as a dark spot, and the zodiacal light brightness can be evaluated locally around the dark spot itself. The estimated EBL brightness is 10 nW/m2/sr at 1.4 µm, which can be detected by NIRcam imaging with F140M filter by 1 hour integration with S/N=10. The greatest difficulty in this observation results from scattered light due to the close proximity of Jupiter to the target satellites, which will reduce S/N. However, Jupiter is dark at F140M owing to the methane absorption in the Jovian atmosphere, thus stray light from Jupiter is also reduced. In addition, we will keep Jupiter out of the detector field of view (FoV) during the observation to avoid stray light from Jupiter. Observations will be conducted with non-sidereal tracking on Jupiter (outside of the FoV) to fix the stray light pattern on the detector during the observation. This will minimize the systematic error of the Jovian stray light. Since the relative speed of the target satellites to Jupiter is ~2.6 mas/sec, short integrations (10 sec) are required to avoid smearing of the target satellite. Letting the eclipsed satellite move relative to the detector using Jupiter tracking has the advantage of effectively dithering the observations so that we can average out any detector issues. We emphasize that we know the ephemeri of Galilean satellites with great precision; the size and location of the Galilean satellites will be accurately known, and therefore easily differentiated from detector effects. In addition, simultaneous observations at F445W trace the position of the satellite in eclipse because thermal emission from 120 K surface of the satelite at >4 µm is detectable even in eclipse.