---
id: 2136
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Tucker Jones"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "31.7"
program_title: "The Emergence of the Modern Hubble Sequence Revealed by JWST Slit-stepping"
type: "GO"
---
# 2136 - The Emergence of the Modern Hubble Sequence Revealed by JWST Slit-stepping
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2136
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                                       | Observing Template              | Science Target                            |
| :------------------------------------------ | :------------------------------ | :---------------------------------------- |
| PA0_unconstrained_StuckOpenShutters_obs1_primary3_v4 | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (2) CAT.LMASSGT9P0.LSFRGT-UPDATED |

---

## ABSTRACT

At what redshifts and mass scales does the galaxy population transition from irregular clumpy structures, to ordered thin disks of the modern Hubble sequence? What are the roles of accretion and feedback, which regulate the gas supply and star formation in galaxies, in driving this transition?
Addressing these questions requires kinematic data for galaxies during their formative epochs, via spatially resolved spectroscopy on kpc physical scales. While progress has been made using integral field spectrographs coupled to adaptive optics (AO) systems, these ground-based efforts are limited in both sample size and accessible redshift range. In particular AO systems are unable to reach key diagnostics at the transformative period z~1 when thin disks first emerge. This proposal will chart the kinematics of 40-50 galaxies at z~1, along with resolved star formation and metallicity to understand how the formation of thin disks is governed by gas accretion and feedback.
We propose a novel approach using slit-stepping with the multiplexed NIRSpec MSA to efficiently obtain 3-D spectroscopy for a significant sample, for which the requisite spectral and spatial resolution can only be achieved with JWST's unique capabilities. In contrast to the traditional IFU mode, slit-stepping provides equivalent data with more than 15 times higher efficiency, and is therefore the only suitable approach for building a large sample with JWST! As this represents a pilot application of the slit-stepping methodology with JWST, we commit to publicly releasing processed 3-D datacubes and software tools as a service to the community, to facilitate future programs using this approach.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose a multiplexed integral field spectroscopy (IFS) survey of galaxies at z=0.5-1.7 in the EGS field with the NIRSpec MSA, using a slit-stepping methodology to obtain pseudo-IFU datacubes of 40-50 targets on a single MSA configuration. Our targets are selected to span the normal star forming population with stellar mass > 10^9 Msun and SFR>0.6 Msun/yr. The slit stepping approach is >15 times more efficient than the NIRSpec IFU thanks to the sensitivity and multiplexing capability of the MSA.

Slit-stepping dither pattern:
We propose a slit-stepping pattern with 9 "steps" of 0.2 arcsec (=1 slitlet width) along the dispersion direction, and 7 dithers of 0.075 arcsec (=1 bar shadow width) along the cross-dispersion direction. Cross-dispersion steps will eliminate bar shadows and ensure almost perfectly uniform integration time across the resulting pseudo-IFU datacubes. The area is thus 18x15 arcsec with uniform coverage for a 3-slitlet datacube (or 18x25 arcsec for a 5-slitlet datacube).

Instrument setup, depth, and exposure times:
We use the G140H grating and F100LP filter to map strong nebular emission lines Halpha, [N II]6548,6584, and [S II]6717,6731 in all targets, as well as Hbeta and [O III]4959,5007 at z>1 (and [S III]9069,9531 and Paschen lines at z<1). We will use these lines to measure spatially resolved kinematics, metallicity, star formation rate, and BPT ionization diagnostics on 0.1x0.2 arcsecond spatial scales. The high resolution grating is needed to study kinematics.
We require 10-sigma sensitivity to the Halpha emission line at surface brightness =7x10^(-17) erg/s/cm^2/arcsec^2 within a 0.1x0.2 arcsec spatial element, corresponding to the average surface brightness at the rotation curve turnover radius (=2.2 R_s) for our targets. Based on the NIRSpec ETC we can reach this sensitivity with 2 hours on-source with G140H/F100LP, via 20 minute exposures per dither position. We use the NRSIRS2 readout mode with 17 groups per integration, and 1 integration at each dither position. The total science time integration time requested is 21.72 hours, translating to 31.67 hours including overheads.