---
id: 2151
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Yao-Lun Yang"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "24.6"
program_title: "Blazing the Trail of COMs from Ice to Gas"
type: "GO"
---
# 2151 - Blazing the Trail of COMs from Ice to Gas
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2151
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                      | Observing Template                 | Science Target           |
| :------------------------- | :--------------------------------- | :----------------------- |
| MIRI-b335-on-source        | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) B335                 |
| MIRI-b335-bkg              | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) B335-BKG             |
| MIRI-l483-on-source        | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) LDN-483              |
| MIRI-l483-bkg              | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) LDN-483-BKG          |
| MIRI-iras15398-on-source   | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (5) IRAS-15398-3359      |
| MIRI-iras15398-bkg         | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (7) IRAS-15398-3359-BKG  |
| MIRI-ser7-on-source        | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (6) SER-EMB-7            |
| MIRI-ser7-bkg              | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (8) SER-EMB-7-BKG        |

---

## ABSTRACT

Complex organic molecules (COMs) are precursors of pre-biotic molecules. The discovery of COMs in protostellar cores indicates an extensive chemical evolution took place in the first million years of star formation. The chemistry of COMs in the protostellar phase may directly link to the COMs in comets and the eventual planetary system. Gas-grain chemistry on the ice mantles of dust grains at warm temperature (20-40 K) has been successful to explain the abundance of COMs in the gas phase. However, observational constraints on ice composition at such temperatures have been inaccessible until JWST. Moreover, not all protostars show evidence of gaseous COMs in their spectra, suggesting either a different chemical evolution of ices or inefficient desorption that keeps most COMs on grains. Does the formation pathway of COMs proceed according to existing models? Is the chemical diversity in the gas phase rooted in ices? To answer these two questions, we will use JWST to measure the ice composition, particularly from warm temperatures (20-40 K) to the desorption temperature. The MIRI MRS observations will probe the ice composition around the protostar at 20 K or higher temperature to (1) measure the ice composition at warm temperatures (>20 K) to test chemical models of COMs, (2) spatially resolve the ice variation at the same scale where gaseous COMs are detected, and (3) determine the origin of chemical diversity from the ice composition of both COM-rich and COM-poor protostars within similar properties.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The proposed observations aim to spatially resolve the ice features at the vicinity of embedded protostars to (1) provide observational constraints on the chemical pathways of complex organic molecules (COMs) and (2) study the evolution of ice chemistry as the temperature increases toward the protostar. To test the chemical model of COMs, we select two well-known isolated embedded protostars with rich spectra of COMs, B335 and L483; we also select two embedded protostars, IRAS 15398-3359 and Ser-emb 7, which have similar protostellar properties without rich spectra of COMs as the control sample. We will use MIRI MRS to measure the ice composition at COM-rich and COM-poor protostars, testing the paradigm of the gas-grain chemistry. The MIRI MRS observations will cover the entire MIRI wavelengths from 5-28 um. The group of each integration for each wavelength range is set up independently to detect known ice species, such as H2O, CO2, and CH3OH, with high S/N. We also request dedicated background observations to isolate the scattered and thermal emission in the inner envelope from the cloud emission. All observations will use the 4-point dither and the SLOW readout pattern.