---
id: 2153
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Coronagraphy"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Gabriele Cugno  Co-PI: Richard Teague"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 7.8
program_title: "Detecting a Young 2 Jupiter Mass Planet Embedded in the Disk of HD 163296"
type: "GO"
---
# 2153 - Detecting a Young 2 Jupiter Mass Planet Embedded in the Disk of HD 163296
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2153
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                  | Observing Template           | Science Target                |
| :--------------------- | :--------------------------- | :---------------------------- |
| HD163296_Roll1         | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging   | (1) HD-163296                 |
| HD163296_Roll1         | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging   | (1) HD-163296                 |
| HD163296_Roll2         | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging   | (1) HD-163296                 |
| HD163296_Roll2         | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging   | (1) HD-163296                 |
| HD163296-BACKGROUND    | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging   | (2) HD-163296-BACKGROUND      |
| IRAS 17555-2235 BACKGROUND | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging   | (4) IRAS-17555-2235-BACKGROUND |
| IRAS 17555-2235        | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging   | (3) IRAS-17555-2235           |

---

## ABSTRACT

To directly confront planet formation mechanisms, a sample of objects in the earliest stages of their lives, i.e, when they are still embedded in their natal protoplanetary disks, need to be observed and studied. Here we propose to demonstrate a synergistic approach between the Atacama Large Millimeter/submillimeter Array (ALMA) and the James Webb Space Telescope (JWST). ALMA observations can reveal the location of an embedded planet by its influence on the dynamical structure of the protoplanetary disk, while the strength of these perturbations allow for a tight constraint on the mass of the planet. Here we propose to image for the first time an embedded planet in the disk around HD 163296 using the MIRI instrument onboard JWST. The 2 MJup planet has been detected in several, independent studies and lies 2" north of the host star. JWST/MIRI in coronagraphic mode at 11.4 $\mu$m is the only available option to detect such embedded objects for decades to come, as no other instrument has the mid-infrared high-contrast capabilities necessary to overcome the obstacle of disk absorption prevalent at shorter, NIR wavelengths. Given its mass and separation, the planet around HD163296 offers the highest chances of detection and would pave the path for a new and highly efficient exoplanet detection method. Detecting emission from the planet and its surrounding is going to reshape our understanding of planet formation, allowing for direct comparison between formation scenarios.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Here, we aim to directly detect the 2 MJ planet embedded in the protoplanetary disk surrounding HD163296. Based on previous ALMA detections, we know that the planet lies2 north of the star. These observations have been designed to detect a 0.5 MJ planet (lower bound of mass estimates) at a 5 significance and a 2 MJ planet at a 20 significance in only 5 hours of on-source time. We plan to use the 4-quadrant-phase-mask coronagraph coupled to the F1140C filter to reach the highest possible contrast. No roll angles are requested, as these might introduce self-subtraction of the planet signal.
Also, we plan to observe the reference star 2MASS J17583283-2235474, which was chosen because of its vicinity to the target and its spectro-photometric similarities with it. For reference star observations we plan to use the 9-POINT-SMALL-GRID dithering to maximize the achieved contrast, crucial to detect the planet.