---
id: 2159
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Nestor Espinoza"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 14.9
program_title: "The First Near-infrared Spectroscopic Phase-curve of a Super-Earth"
type: "GO"
---
# 2159 - The First Near-infrared Spectroscopic Phase-curve of a Super-Earth
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2159
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label             | Observing Template              | Science Target |
| :---------------- | :------------------------------ | :------------- |
| K2-141 phase curve | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) K2-141     |

## ABSTRACT

The relatively rare sub-population of the so-called ultra-short period (P < 1 day) rocky planets offers a unique opportunity for atmospheric characterization studies. Given the large amount of stellar irradiation these planets are bombarded with, they are expected to have lost their primordial atmospheres giving rise to thin or thick (i.e., low or high pressure) outgassed, exotic Na, O or SiO-rich atmospheres. Characterizing the surfaces and/or atmospheres of these highly irradiated rocky worlds, thus, provides a window to explore exciting atmospheric and/or surface compositions which might be completely different to the ones observed in our Solar System. Motivated by these fascinating prospects, here we propose to constrain the atmosphere of the ultra-short period (6.9-hour; Teq = 2150 K) transiting super-Earth K2-141b (Rp=1.51REarth; Mp=5.08MEarth) through a spectroscopic phase-curve observation with the James Webb Space Telescope. Our program, which will allow us to directly detect the thermal emission of this exoplanet as a function of both orbital phase and wavelength, will provide precious insights into its atmospheric and/or geological properties, which will serve as a strong leverage for future studies and characterization efforts of highly-irradiated super-Earths.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Our science observations are composed of a 11.92-hour long NIRSpec/BOTS Time Series Observation (TSO) exposure of 4317 integrations, having 10 groups per integration. These observations aim at obtaining the flux of an exoplanet through an entire orbital period around its host star, targeting in the process two secondary eclipses and one primary transit. The first 2.72 hours are expected to be spent as pre-eclipse baseline (which accounts also for uncertainties on the projected ephemerides for the exoplanet in the October-December 2022 range), followed by 0.47 hours spent going through mid-eclipse. Then, 6.73 hours (the orbital period of the exoplanet) will be spent sampling the phase-curve, and 0.47 extra hours will be spent sampling the end of the second secondary eclipse. Finally, 2 hours are added for both, post-eclipe baseline and to account for the phase-constraint 1-hour window. These observations will be obtained with the G395H grating, and the 2048 subarray with the NRSRAPID readout mode in order to obtain the entire wavelength range offered by the grating; these should use the S1600A1 slit.

The TSO exposure is preceded by a Target Acquisition exposure on the star 2MASS J23233859-0110575, which is 32 arcseconds away from our target and is sufficiently faint for the purpose of obtaining a WATA observing sequence with the NRSRAPID readout mode as well. With a single integration of 3 groups, the expected signal-to-noise ratio of this exposure is above 40, which is adequate for proper centroiding.