---
id: 2162
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU  MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Nicole Nesvadba"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "4.3"
program_title: "Does Turbulence Suppress Star Formation in AGN hosts?"
type: "GO"
---
# 2162 - Does Turbulence Suppress Star Formation in AGN hosts?
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2162
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                               | Observing Template                     | Science Target             |
| :---------------------------------- | :------------------------------------- | :------------------------- |
| 3C 326 N H2 1-0 S(3) NIRSPEC        | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy               | (3) Group 3C326N-SOURCEBG  |
| 3C 326 N H2 0-0 S(3) MIRI           | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (1) 3C326N                 |
| 3C 326 N H2 0-0 S(3) MIRI           | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (2) 3C326N-BACKGROUND      |

---

## ABSTRACT

It is not well understood how massive galaxies regulate their star formation, and hence inhibit rapid conversion of their gas into stars. Both AGN feedback and feedback from the star formation process itself are likely to contribute. The radio galaxy 3C 326N is a key target in resolving this issue because it contains a large mass of warm molecular gas that appears to be prevented from forming stars by large turbulent motions (seen in line widths of ~ 600 km/s on 1.0" scales), and that cannot be related to the AGN radiation, which is very faint. We have proposed that the turbulent motions are powered by the kinetic energy of the radio outflow, and that this is sufficient to inhibit star formation for 10^8 yr or longer. We now propose to measure the turbulent motions of the warm molecular gas at the diffraction limit of the JWST with NIRSPEC, which cannot be reached with ground-based adaptive-optics-assisted IFUs for this source. A central prediction for turbulent gas is that the line widths will remain high, FWHM~60 km/s down to these scales where, in absence of jet-driven turbulence, the gas should otherwise become gravitationally unstable and start to form stars. This is a simple observational test of a single source, which represents a direct test of a mechanism that has been proposed to be a universal process regulating star formation in galaxies, but which is extremely challenging to observe in more complex systems, where star formation, AGN radiation, and radio jets co-exist. Demonstrating its validity even in a single object will therefore be an important complement to the large number of studies of warm H2 in active galaxies that MIRI will enable.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will use the NIRSPEC and MIRI IFUs to observe a nearby radio galaxy, 3c326n, in different tracers of warm molecular gas. The expected emission-line region is 1"x2" in size, small enough to fit into the FOVs of both instruments, even without blind offset from a star. Conservatively, though, in particular before in-flight constraints on the pointing accuracy are available, we are nodding towards a blank field with both instruments. We take a shallow frame at the position of the source to be able to correct for strong leakage from open shutters, if necessary.