---
id: 2180
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging  MIRI/MRS  MIRI/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Ilse De Looze"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "22.7/1.9"
program_title: "Structure Formation and Baryonic Cycling in the Edge-on Galaxy NGC891"
type: "GO"
---
# 2180 - Structure Formation and Baryonic Cycling in the Edge-on Galaxy NGC891
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2180
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                      | Observing Template                 | Science Target           |
| :------------------------- | :--------------------------------- | :----------------------- |
| NIRCAM_Disk_North1         | NIRCam Imaging                     | (2) NGC891-DISK-NORTH1   |
| NIRCAM_Disk_North2         | NIRCam Imaging                     | (1) NGC891-DISK-NORTH    |
| NIRCAM_Disk_North3         | NIRCam Imaging                     | (3) NGC891-DISK-NORTH3   |
| NIRCAM_Background          | NIRCam Imaging                     | (9) NGC891-BACKGROUND    |
| MIRI_MRS_halo_C_1kpc       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (5) NGC891-C-EAST-1KPC   |
| MIRI_MRS_halo_C_2kpc       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (6) NGC891-C-EAST-2KPC   |
| MIRI_MRS_halo_NE_1kpc      | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (7) NGC891-NE-1KPC       |
| MIRI_MRS_halo_NE_2kpc      | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (8) NGC891-NE-2KPC       |
| MIRI_MRS_background        | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (9) NGC891-BACKGROUND    |
| MIRI_F770W_halo_strip      | MIRI Imaging                       | (4) NGC891-EXTRAPLANAR   |
| MIRI_F770W_background      | MIRI Imaging                       | (9) NGC891-BACKGROUND    |

---

## ABSTRACT

Due to their inclined orientation, local edge-on galaxies provide unique laboratories to study vertical disk stratification and to probe the extent and the composition of the circumgalactic medium. One of the major challenges that current galaxy evolution models face involves properly characterising the efficiency of various feedback mechanisms in regulating galaxy's vertical disk scaleheights and in driving feedback-driven outflows. With our proposed high-sensitivity JWST observations of the nearby edge-on galaxy NGC891, we aim to (1.) resolve the vertical galaxy disk layering of stars and dust, and search for heavily observed star clusters with NIRCAM (F150W, F277W); (2.) probe the distribution and anisotropy of dust (MIRI F770W, F1000W, F1130W) and molecular gas (MIRI MRS IFU) in the circumgalactic medium, and link extraplanar chimneys of gas and dust to the heavily embedded star formation activity in the disk to constrain the efficiency of radiative and mechanical feedback mechanisms driving gaseous outflows; (3.) constrain the photo-ionisation sources (and pressure) and its variations with scaleheight in the extended diffuse ionised gas layer at two radial positions R=0kpc and R=10kpc (MIRI MRS IFU). Together, these JWST constraints on the vertical stellar disk structure, extraplanar gas and dust distribution, and the diffuse ionised gas layer will provide a unique set of constraints to test prescriptions of various feedback mechanisms and "bathtub" gas regulation in highly resolved (~1pc) simulations of patches of galaxy disks. These high-resolution simulations will lead to improved subgrid models for the next generation of large-scale cosmological simulations.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to observe the nearby edge-on galaxy NGC891 with NIRCAM imaging, MIRI imaging, and MIRI MRS IFU.

NIRCAM imaging: We will observe the northern part of NGC891's disk with three NIRCAM (F150W, F277W) 2x3 mosaics using the "SUB640" subarray to avoid saturation of the bright disk emission. Rather than a single strip along the disk, we will cover the northern disk with three individual mosaics to enable flexible scheduling. We request the INTRAMODULEBOX mode with 3 primary dithers and 2 small grid subpixel dithers to optimise the PSF sampling and limit bad pixels. To avoid saturation, while still reaching the required S/N level, we opt for the BRIGHT2 readout mode, 2 groups and 6 integrations (driven by the number of dithers).

MIRI imaging + NIRCAM parallels: We request MIRI F770W imaging (2x1 FULL mosaic) of an extraplanar strip out to 10kpc above the midplane to probe the emission of warm polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) at 7.7 micron, which can be most efficiently detected with JWST compared to PAH features at longer wavelengths. We request 4-point dithers to reconstruct the PSF shape; and the FAST readout mode, 10 groups and a total of 80 integrations to avoid saturation. We request coordinated parallel observations of the stellar disk beyond R25 with two NIRCAM filters (F070W, F277W) to characterise the stellar populations and dust (through extinction) in galaxy outskirts. We request the MEDIUM8 readout mode with 5 groups and 4 integrations (from the dithers) for the parallel NIRCAM observations to limit the telescope's data rate. To probe the stellar disk with the coordinated parallels and a strip of extraplanar dust roughly along the minor axis, we require some restriction on the V3 PAs (between 100 and 105 degrees). We will have a dedicated parallel observation to correct for the NIRCAM and MIRI background emission which will be linked to the science observations in a non-interruptible sequence.

MIRI MRS IFU + simultaneous MIRI imaging: We request 4 MIRI MRS single-field mosaics using all three gratings with the 4-point dithering scheme, and the SLOW readout mode with 10 groups and a total of 8 integrations. The SLOW readout mode is required to keep the data rate below the average of 0.65 MB/s over a 12h period. To avoid saturation during the simultaneous imaging, we will observe the MIRI (F770W, F1000W, F1130W) filters with the FAST readout mode, 10 groups and 56 integrations. Note that we scaled down the number of integrations for the imaging to reach an averaged data volume rate of 0.62 MB/s over a total observing period of over 13h (since the five IFU observations are linked in a sequence). It does not make full use of the imaging capabilities (only imaging for 4/5th of the available IFU observing time), but it avoids saturation and still allows the use of the FULL array to cover a large area. To remove the thermal background, we require a dedicated background observation with the same observing strategy as applied to the four "science" MIRI MRS IFUs.