---
id: 2186
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Shunsuke Baba"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "6.7"
program_title: "NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy of the High-density Starburst in Ultra-luminous Infrared Galaxies"
type: "GO"
---
# 2186 - NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy of the High-density Starburst in Ultra-luminous Infrared Galaxies
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2186
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label      | Observing Template        | Science Target           |
| :--------- | :------------------------ | :----------------------- |
| Mrk273     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (1) MRK-273              |
| IRAS10565  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (2) IRAS-10565+2448      |
| IRAS10494  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (3) IRAS-10494+4424      |
| UGC5101    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (4) UGC-5101             |
| IRAS04074  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (5) IRAS-04074-2801      |

## ABSTRACT

The aim of this proposal is to investigate a recently suggested hypothesis of high-density starburst in ULIRGs. This hypothesis stems from systematic observations of Br-alpha (4.05 microns) and Br-beta (2.63 micon) lines in ULIRGs conducted by the space infrared telescope AKARI. The observed Br-beta/Br-alpha flux ratio exceeds the upper limit of the well-known Case B and corresponds to apparently negative extinction. This suggests that Case B no longer holds in the star-forming regions of ULIRGs and that due to an extreme number density as high as 10^8 cm^-3, the Br-alpha line is optically thick and saturated. To test this hypothesis, NIRSpec IFU observations are proposed to follow up the five ULIRGs that showed anomalous Br-beta/Br-alpha ratios. By examining the spatial distribution of Br-beta/Br-alpha the site of the harsh star-formation can be investigated. This Br-beta/Br-alpha anomaly is not only a criticla issue to understand the star-formation in ULIRGs but also a challenge to the fundamental method in astronomy that measures the star formation rate and dust extinction from recombination lines. These Br-alpha and Br-beta lines cannot be observed from the ground, and the new channel provided by JWST will make this science possible for the first time.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

A series of NIRSpec IFU spectroscopy is proposed to observe the Br-alpha (4.05 micron) and Br-beta (2.63 micron) lines at the nuclear regions of five ultra-luminous infrared galaxies: Mrk 273, IRAS 10565+2448, IRAS 10494+4424, UGC 5101, and IRAS 04074-2801. The combinations of G395M/F290LP and G235M/F170LP are used for Br-alpha and Br-beta, respectively, except for the most distant target, IRAS 04074. For IRAS 04074, only G395M/F290LP is used because the Br-beta line is redshifted into the coverage of F290LP. To improve spatial sampling and correct for the micro-shutter-assembly leakage, 4-point-dither is adopted. The detector readout pattern NRSIRS2RAPID is chosen except for UGC 5101. For UGC 5101, NRSRAPID is employed instead because the observation would saturate within five groups per integration if NRSIRS2RAPID is used.