---
id: 2198
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging  NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Laia Barrufet  Co-PI: Pascal Oesch"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "9.8"
program_title: "Quiescent or Dusty? Unveiling the Nature of Extremely Red Galaxies at z>3"
type: "GO"
---
# 2198 - Quiescent or Dusty? Unveiling the Nature of Extremely Red Galaxies at z>3
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2198
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                      | Observing Template                 | Science Target     |
| :------------------------- | :--------------------------------- | :----------------- |
| PreimageS67                | NIRCam Imaging                     | (5) S67NIRCAM      |
| S67v1s                     | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy   | (16) APTCATS67V5   |
| PreimageS156               | NIRCam Imaging                     | (6) S156NIRCAM     |
| S156\_APA209.574569        | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy   | (15) APTCATS156V7  |

---

## ABSTRACT
Quantifying the nature and prevalence of the recently-discovered extremely-red galaxies found in Spitzer IRAC data, but not seen by Hubble, is one of the most exciting high-redshift opportunities for JWST's infrared capabilities. These galaxies are suspected of being either dusty star-forming galaxies at z~3-6, or, most intriguingly, quiescent evolved galaxies at z~4-5. These "H-dropouts", so-named from their non-detection by Hubble's WFC3/IR camera, remain an enigma. The limited spectral coverage of the current photometric data has precluded any reliable assessment of their redshifts. And spectroscopic confirmation has been quite impractical. ALMA data has provided further confirmation, but without establishing redshifts. H-dropouts pose significant challenges to galaxy growth models (if evolved), or to our estimates of the history of galaxy build-up (if dusty star-forming). Our JWST "H-drop" pilot program uses NIRSpec/prism spectroscopy at R=100 to reveal the true nature of these extremely red galaxies. We have identified two relatively bright, plausible z~4-5 quiescent galaxies from the deepest IRAC imaging data of the GOODS-S field, plus a larger sample of H-band undetected sources in that same field. Our primary goals are to: (1) obtain the first spectroscopic redshift measurement for this enigmatic population; (2) distinguish quiescent from dusty star-forming sources; (3) constrain their physical properties including gas-phase metallicities; (4) provide new measurements for the contribution of obscured sources to the cosmic Star Formation Rate Density at z~3-6; and (5) possibly confirm the first quiescent galaxies at z~4-5. Only JWST/NIRSpec can achieve these goals.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION
The primary goal of this program is to obtain 0.8hr deep NIRSpec/PRISM observations of a sample of H-dropout galaxies split over 2 MSA pointings, where we will take 2 configurations each. Given that our galaxy sample is by definition not detected in current HST imaging, but just in Spitzer/IRAC, we require NIRCam preimaging (the IRAC PSF is much too wide for accurate positioning of the MSA slits).

NIRCam pre-imaging acquisition:
For both pointing separately, we take the pre-imaging with a large scale dither to cover the required area to fit all candidate sources that will be observed in the MSA masks. In particular, we use the INTRASCA primary dither pattern to obtain a large scale offset of 24". At each of these positions, we use a 3-point small scale dither pattern to properly sample the PSF. We use the SHALLOW4 readout pattern with 6 groups, resulting in a total exposure time of 1868s. Images are taken in F444W (LW) to detect our candidate galaxies, and complementary F200W (SW).

NIRSpec exposures:
The observing strategy for the MSA consists of 3 nod in slits exposures. We are taking a series of 13 groups of integrations with the IRS2 readout mode, resulting in a total exposure time of 2889s. By repeating this for a second configuration at the same pointing, we reach a sample of ~15 primary galaxies, in addition to ~30-35 fillers. The MSA mask design can only be finalized after pre-imaging and once the V3 angle of JWST will be assigned.

Background Limited Special Requirement:
One of the requirements of our program is to measure faint Halpha emission lines, which are expected to lie at ~4.5micron. The peak S/N at this wavelength changes by >10% between the lowest and highest background conditions. Similarly our F444W images are affected. We therefore request ``Background Limited" observations. We set the requirement to "Background no more than 40% above minimum" for the pre-imaging and 20% for the spectra to ensure a sufficiently large scheduling window of 2.5 months.