---
id: 2219
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Svea Hernandez"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "14.8"
program_title: "Shining Light on the CO-dark H2 Gas in the Heart of M83"
type: "GO"
---
# 2219 - Shining Light on the CO-dark H2 Gas in the Heart of M83
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2219
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                        | Observing Template               | Science Target       |
| :--------------------------- | :------------------------------- | :------------------- |
| M-83-F1                      | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) M-83-F1          |
| M-83-Background-short        | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (6) M-83-BACKGROUND  |
| M-83-F1                      | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) M-83-F1          |
| M-83-F1-F2-Background        | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (6) M-83-BACKGROUND  |
| M-83-F1                      | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) M-83-F1          |
| M-83-F1-F2-Background        | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (6) M-83-BACKGROUND  |

---

## ABSTRACT

Molecular gas is a critical ingredient in the recipe of star formation (SF) in galaxies. In order to fully understand the processes that govern SF, it is essential to accurately measure, map and characterize the distribution of H2 in star-forming environments. Since H2 is a weak rotational emitter, the molecular gas content in galaxies is typically inferred using indirect tracers. The CO (1-0) transition has been widely used as H2 tracer for decades. However, CO provides a partial census of the total H2 mass, particularly in regions with large quantities of CO-dark gas. Recent evidence from an FUV spectroscopic study suggests that S+ might be tracing large amounts of CO-dark gas in the core of M83. Here we propose to exploit the unprecedented capabilities of JWST in the MIR, using the MIRI/MRS, to perform a spatially-resolved study of the warm H2 gas in the heart of this face-on spiral galaxy. Our motivation is to directly detect the warm H2 in the core of M83, and infer the total H2 mass by combining the spatially-resolved data with a new continuous-temperature model using the H2 rotational emission. Ultimately, we will be able to test if S+ does indeed trace CO-dark gas in such environments with intense SF. To understand the fueling SF history through cosmic time, it is imperative that we test and develop tools to accurately estimate molecular gas mass directly probing the H2 reservoirs. JWST, with its unrivaled sensitivity will allow us to do exactly that.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will observed the nucleus of the nearby spiral galaxy, M83, with the MIRI/MRS IFU. We will require four pointings to fully cover the nucleus of M83 with Channel 4 (6.9" X 7.9"), and fully sample the massive stellar clusters in all four channels. In addition, we request companion background observations with identical integrations as that of the individual M83 pointings to accurately measure and correct for the thermal background.

Given the expected absolute pointing accuracy of JWST (0.10”), we do not request additional time to perform a target acquisition. Our proposed science goals can be achieved with a pointing uncertainty of ~0.10".

We will obtain MIRI/MRS IFU spectral maps to accurately trace the warm molecular gas in the core of this galaxy. To fully exploit the potential of MIRI/MRS we will cover the full wavelength range, ~5 - 28 micron using all three grating settings, SHORT (A), MEDIUM (B), and LONG (C), and the FAST readout mode. We will collect simultaneous off-source imaging observations using the the F1000W, F1130W, and F2100W filters. With these observations we will primarily map PAH and warm dust emission arising on the disk of M83.

We do not require any specific PA orientation for the MIRI/MRS pointings in the nucleus, however, we constrain the PA range between 275 and 15° for the MIRI/MRS background observations. This constraint is particularly relevant for the MIRI imaging of the background pointing, as we need to avoid the disk of the galaxy.