---
id: 2221
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging  MIRI/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Adam Ginsburg  Co-PI: Alyssa Bulatek"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "8.6/1.6"
program_title: "Star Formation along the Galactic Dust Ridge: The Brick and Cloud C"
type: "GO"
---
# 2221 - Star Formation along the Galactic Dust Ridge: The Brick and Cloud C
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2221
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                               | Observing Template | Science Target                     |
| :---------------------------------- | :----------------- | :--------------------------------- |
| MIRI background for C loud C        | MIRI Imaging       | (2) CLOUD-C-MIRI-BACKGROUND        |
| The Brick/Cloud C, NI RCam/MIRI     | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) BRICK-IKP2016-G0.253+0.015    |
| The Brick/Cloud C, MI RI/NIRCam     | MIRI Imaging       | (1) BRICK-IKP2016-G0.253+0.015    |

## ABSTRACT

The Milky Way's Central Molecular Zone (CMZ) is a local analogue to the star-forming environments at the peak of cosmic star formation (z ~ 2). Under these conditions, CMZ clouds are forming stars at a rate lower than expected given their large reservoirs of dense gas. Two clouds in particular, The Brick and Cloud C, are prime examples of this, with no evidence of widespread star formation despite their extreme masses and densities. We propose to use JWST to pierce through these dark clouds to obtain a census of the embedded YSO population and to uncover recent and ongoing low-mass star formation. Because of the relative locations of The Brick and Cloud C, MIRI will be pointed at Cloud C while NIRCam is pointed at The Brick and vice-versa. Therefore, we propose coordinated parallel observations where MIRI will search for the most deeply embedded YSOs based on their 25 micron dust emission while NIRCam will search for direct accretion signatures using the hydrogen recombination lines, H2, and CO filters. The PaAlpha and BrAlpha filters will identify the ionized flows of accreting sources, while the H2 filter shows outflow shock knots, and the CO band will exhibit either ice absorption from the cold envelope or disk emission from hot inner disks. We will use our sample of YSOs to map out the recent star formation history of these clouds and test competing theories for cloud evolution and star formation stochasticity in the CMZ.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We aim to map out the Brick and Cloud C in a set of seven filters, four narrow-band (PaA 1.87 micron, BrA 4.05 micron, H2 2.12 micron, and CO 4.66 micron), two medium-band (F182M and F410M), and one wide-band long-wavelength (F2550W) filter. The narrow-band filters are used to measure specific emission features in accreting YSOs (PaA and BrA), CO ice in absorption to YSOs, and outflows from YSOs (H2), with the main aim of uniquely selecting YSOs and avoiding evolved and main-sequence star contaminants. The narrow-band PaA and BrA filters will be used to map extinction in the low-extinction outskirts where both will be detected against the diffuse ionized gas background at S/N great enough to build up pixel-by-pixel extinction maps. The medium-band filters will serve as continuum filters for their included or neighboring narrow-band filters. The wide-band filter at 25.5 microns is to select Class 0/I objects too deeply embedded to be seen in the near- and mid-infrared bands.

Both The Brick and Cloud C can be imaged simultaneously with NIRCam and MIRI. For one orientation of our observation (NIRCam on The Brick and MIRI on Cloud C), we adopted a full dither pattern with four sub-pixel dithers to optimize the spatial resolution in the NIRCam observations. For the flipped version of this observation (MIRI on The Brick and NIRCam on Cloud C), we will use the four sub-pixel dithers optimized for F2550W. For both instruments, readout modes have been chosen to keep data volume and data rate low while ensuring minimal saturation on bright sources in our field of view.

The position angle restrictions placed on these observations take into account pointing limits due to the total roll of the telescope as well as the projection of the detectors' fields of view on the sky. The primary limitation on telescope position angle is caused by the lack of availability of guide stars in our field of view. For two of the next four possible observation windows of this patch of sky, NIRCam and MIRI will be pointing simultaneously at both The Brick and Cloud C. All position angles reported provide coverage of these clouds to some degree.