---
id: 2235
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Farhad Yusef-Zadeh"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "24.9"
program_title: "Imaging the Shadow of a Black Hole through Sgr A* Monitoring"
type: "GO"
---
# 2235 - Imaging the Shadow of a Black Hole through Sgr A* Monitoring
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2235
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                               | Observing Template   | Science Target |
| :---------------------------------- | :------------------- | :------------- |
| NIRCam imaging                      | NIRCam Imaging       | (1) SGRA       |
| NIRCam imaging                      | NIRCam Imaging       | (1) SGRA       |
| NIRCam imaging                      | NIRCam Imaging       | (1) SGRA       |
| NIRCam imaging - Repeat of visit 3  | NIRCam Imaging       | (1) SGRA       |
| NIRCam imaging - Repeat of visit 4  | NIRCam Imaging       | (1) SGRA       |
| NIRCam imaging - Repeat of visit 5  | NIRCam Time Series   | (1) SGRA       |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose to monitor the near-IR flare emission of Sgr A* at two wavelengths using NIRCam imaging. The observations will consist of 3 8-hour episodes to be carried out simulataneously with observations by ALMA and the Event Horizon Telescope (EHT). Simultaneous measurements at 2.1 and 4.8 microns provide the spectral evolution of IR flare emission. This yields information about the particle acceleration process and subsequent synchrotron cooling of the highest-energy particles. Using an adiabatic expansion model, the IR light curve can then be used to determine the spectrum and the variability of submm emission across the multiple flares that are likely during the course of the EHT observations. The predicted submm variability is a necessary component in being able to construct an image of the black hole shadow from the EHT observations. The proposed simultaneous IR and submm observations of the variability of Sgr A* will be key to the EHT's success.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will use the NIRCam in imaging mode to obtain observations centered on the SMBH Sgr A* at the Galactic Center (GC). Simultaneous imaging will be obtained in the short- and long-wavelength channels, using Module B only, and the SUB640 subarray readout. Subarray readouts are used to reduce data volume and decrease the exposure time per group, because of the bright sources located near Sgr A*. The F210M and F480M filters will be used to obtain photometry of Sgr A* at two different wavelengths simultaneously, thus allowing for measurments of the spectral index of Sgr A* as well. Using the RAPID readout mode, with the SUB640 subarray, we will obtain 10 groups per integration and 20 integrations per exposure, in conjunction with a 4-point dither pattern. Each block of 4 dithered exposures will cover ~1 hour of observing. We will obtain 6 such exposure blocks in a back-to-back fashion, which will provide ~8 hours of coverage on the target. Three such 8-hour visits will be obtained, which will be coordinated with dates and times at which other telescopes in the EHT campaign (such as ALMA) are observing Sgr A*.