---
id: 2243
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Coronagraphy"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Elisabeth Matthews"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 13.8
program_title: "A Direct Detection of the Closest Jupiter Analog with JWST/MIRI"
type: "GO"
---
# 2243 - A Direct Detection of the Closest Jupiter Analog with JWST/MIRI
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2243
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label             | Observing Template          | Science Target      |
| :---------------- | :-------------------------- | :------------------ |
| BG_dituc F1550C   | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging  | (3) BG-NEAR-DI-TUC  |
| BG_epsindi F1550C | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging  | (3) BG-NEAR-DI-TUC  |
| BG_dituc F1065C   | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging  | (3) BG-NEAR-DI-TUC  |
| BG_epsindi F1065C | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging  | (3) BG-NEAR-DI-TUC  |
| DITuc F1065C      | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging  | (2) V-DI-TUC        |
| DITuc F1550C      | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging  | (2) V-DI-TUC        |
| EpsIndi F1550C    | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging  | (1) -EPS-IND        |
| EpsIndi F1065C    | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging  | (1) -EPS-IND        |

---

## ABSTRACT

We will collect the first direct images of a radial velocity planet, by targeting Eps Indi Ab with JWST/MIRI. This recently discovered Jovian mass exoplanet has been identified with long-term radial velocity and astrometry measurements, around a star at just 3.6pc. The planet has mass 3.3Mjup and semi-major axis 11au, and at an age ~4Gyr the planet is ~200K, far colder than any directly imaged planet to date. Our simulations confirm that we will detect Eps Indi Ab's thermal emission at high confidence, regardless of its cloud properties or thermal evolution.

Eps Indi Ab provides a unique opportunity to measure both the luminosity and the dynamical mass of a true Jupiter-analog, with a well constrained age. We will image the system in two filters, and thereby derive a constraint on the temperature and cloudiness of the system. The system is also particularly interesting in the context of planet formation: Eps Indi A is co-moving with the low mass binary brown dwarf Eps Indi BA/BB. The planet and brown dwarfs have similar ages and formed in similar environments, but have very different masses, making this an excellent benchmark system for formation models.

This project will pave the way for future studies of this system: the flux and orbital constraints derived here will allow complex observations, such as MIRI medium resolution spectroscopy or variability studies, in future cycles. As the closest Jupiter analog to the Solar System, Eps Indi Ab will be the highest-priority target for comparative studies of cold gas giant atmospheres for the foreseeable future. That long-term legacy starts here with the first mid-infrared characterization of the planet spectrum.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will observe Eps Indi Ab with JWST/MIRI coronagraphic imaging, with the F1065C and F1550C filters. We will also collect PSF reference images of DI Tuc, using the 5-point small grid dither technique. This allows data to be reduced using reference differential imaging (RDI); we do not use angular differential imaging (ADI) for this target. Even with the maximum JWST roll (10 degrees), the companion PSF (separated by 1.4'' from the host star) would overlap between the two roll angles, and therefore be significantly self-subtracted. Instead, our simulated observations demonstrate that RDI-only, with a 5-point small grid dither, is sufficient to detect the companion, and we do not include a roll on the science target.

We require that the companion is not positioned near any of the linear boundaries between adjacent quadrants of the 4QPM coronagraphic mask, which limits the schedulable dates for this observation. Based on our RV and astrometric orbital fitting and for a nominal date of 2022-09-30, we require that companion position angles 190-216 degrees are unobstructed at separations greater than 1.1''. This corresponds to an aperture position angle constraint of 68-78degrees (+90n degrees, with n an integer, since the companion can be observed in any quadrant). Aperture position angles at the center of this range are the best for this target. The target should be acquired in a different quadrant than the companion: since the target is unschedulable in quadrant 2, we specify target acquisition in this quadrant. If the cycle 1 observations are significantly delayed beyond the nominal date, then the position angle constraints will be updated. There are no orientation constraints for the reference star.

We include all four observations in a non-interruptible block. It is crucial that the science and PSF observations are collected in a non-interruptible block since the JWST PSF is time-variable. We prefer to also collect the observations in the two filters immediately sequentially: if the F1065C detection is marginal (see Science & Technical Justification) then this will ensure we are able to accurately pinpoint the source location and quantify the F1065C flux or flux upper limit. If absolutely necessary the observations at the two wavelengths could be made on separate occasions.