---
id: 2260
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Ilaria Pascucci"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 18
program_title: "Caught in the Act of Dispersing their Disks? MIRI MRS Can Tell"
type: "GO"
---
# 2260 - Caught in the Act of Dispersing their Disks? MIRI MRS Can Tell
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2260
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label         | Observing Template                | Science Target  |
| :------------ | :-------------------------------- | :-------------- |
| TCha          | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) TCHA        |
| TCha_sky      | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (5) TCHASKY     |
| V4046Sgr      | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) V4046SGR    |
| V4046Sgr_sky  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (6) V4046SKY    |

## ABSTRACT

Transition disks are planet-forming disks with large dust gaps or cavities, from a few to tens of au. Based on spectrally resolved 12.8 micron [NeII] profiles, several of them have been also found to drive slow (~5 km/s) winds, compatible with star-driven photoevaporative flows. Regardless of whether the gaps/cavities are created by planets or photoevaporation, these systems might be in the unique stage of dispersing their disks. However, line profiles alone cannot exclude MHD winds which might drive evolution but not dispersal. Here, we propose MIRI MRS observations of two transition disks with a large dust cavity (>30 au in radius) and a small (=<4 au) inner disk plus evidence for a slow [NeII] wind. MIRI MRS is the only instrument that can spatially resolve [NeII] emission near or exterior to the cavity radius as expected in the photoevaporative wind scenario.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Along with [NeII], we will map the emission from other forbidden and H recombination lines to constrain the ionization fraction of the flowing gas, hence wind mass loss rates. Our project will establish how much time is left for planet formation and migration in these two systems and provide a pathfinder for future observations aiming at clarifying how disks disperse.

We aim at spatially resolving disk winds from the transition objects TCha and V4046Sgr. For this goal we will use MIRI MRS IFU and target several forbidden lines, in particular the [NeII] at 12.8micron, and the strongest of the HI recombination lines at 12.37micron. As the selected lines fall in different grating settings, we will obtain the full spectrum from ~4.9 to 28micron. The exposure time is set to achieve a S/N >25 at the cavity radius in the [NeIII] at 15.55micron (Channel3, MEDIUMB), the cavity sizes are known from mm ALMA images and the [NeIII] emission is conservatively assumed to be 1/20 of the measured [NeII] flux. Target acquisition is not needed and we select 4-Point dithering for the expected extended emission. The maximum number of groups is chosen not to saturate the continuum at any wavelength and the number of integrations is changed to achieve the requested S/N. As we use an extended source dither pattern and several of our lines of interest are in Channel3, we also request a dedicated sky pointing for background subtraction.