---
id: 2282
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging  NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Dan Coe"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "13.9"
program_title: "A Strongly Magnified Individual Star and Parsec-Scale Clusters Observed in the First Billion Years at z = 6"
type: "GO"
---
# 2282 - A Strongly Magnified Individual Star and Parsec-Scale Clusters Observed in the First Billion Years at z = 6
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2282
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Folder Observation | Label            | Observing Template        | Science Target        |
|--------------------|------------------|---------------------------|-----------------------|
| 10                 | NIRCam Imaging   | NIRCam Imaging            | (1) WHL0137-08        |
| 20                 | NIRCam Imaging   | NIRCam Imaging            | (1) WHL0137-08        |
| 21                 | NIRSpec MSA1     | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (21) WHL0137-MSA      |
| 22                 | NIRSpec MSA2     | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (22) WHL0137-MSA-OBS2 |
| 23                 | NIRSpec MSA3     | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (23) WHL0137-MSA-OBS3 |
| 120                | NIRCam Imaging   | NIRCam Imaging            | (1) WHL0137-08        |

---

## ABSTRACT

JWST was designed to study the first stars. Until recently, we assumed that meant populations of stars within the first galaxies. But in the past 3 years, 3 individual strongly lensed stars have been discovered at z~1. This offers a new hope of directly observing individual stars at cosmological distances with JWST. Here we propose JWST observations of a candidate strongly lensed star at z~6, dubbed LSz6. For the past 3 years, LSz6 has been steadily magnified by a factor of ~9000 on the lensing critical curve directly between multiple images of a bright star forming clump. The clump is also remarkable as the most distant known bound massive star cluster, with a radius < 6 pc, the size of local star clusters. This unprecedented spatial resolution is afforded us by the most highly magnified z=6 galaxy known, dubbed the "Sunrise Arc".

We propose 3 hours of NIRCam imaging in 2 epochs and 3 hours of NIRSpec MOS PRISM spectroscopy of 12 positions along the arc. These observations will:

1) Confirm LSz6 is an individual star at z=6 and place it on the H-R diagram with measurements of luminosity and temperature
2) Confirm the lensed clumps are bound massive star clusters, constrain their histories and fates, and measure their individual ionizing strengths
3) Confirm the existence of a galaxy core and measure outward gradients of mass, metallicity, and age for the first time in detail at z=6

Observations from this program will inform future JWST proposals to study the Sunrise Arc in even greater detail and provide time monitoring for years to come. We waive exclusive access to all data obtained from this program to benefit the community.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We are obtaining NIRCam imaging and NIRSpec MSA prism on one target field: WHL0137. The NIRCam imaging is serving as pre-imaging for NIRSpec that will follow at least 60 days later.

This APT submission includes fully prepared NIRSpec MSA PRISM observations. 3 observations are obtained, each with a different set of targets, and each with 3 dithers, for 9 MSA configurations altogether. These observations should obtain spectra of 174 science targets and 281 background locations. These include 13 spectra along our primary science target: the 15" long z=6 Sunrise Arc, including the lensed star Earendel.

All MSA observations have similar pointings within < 1 arcmin due to various constraints. We avoid an 8th magnitude star, positioning in behind the solid metal between the MSA quadrants Q1 and Q2. We also roughly center the primary science targets in the dispersion direction on the Q1 detector, maximizing the spectral coverage.

Our primary science targets are densely packed along the 15" long Sunrise Arc. To observe all of these targets, we use single slitlets (with midpoint centering constraints) and 3 MSA observations.

Each observation performs 3 fixed dithers, each with an updated MSA configuration attempting to keep all targets within slitlets. Some targets will be lost in some dithers (due to failed shutters or moving just out of the slitlet). We carefully designed the dithers for each observation to ensure all primary science targets (in the Sunrise Arc) are observed in all 3 dithers.

Our first observation selects weighted targets from our primary MSA catalog. We then downweight / 100 all targets (except Earendel) observed in the first observation. Our second observation uses this new catalog. Then for the third observation, we again downweight / 100 all observed targets, this time including Earendel, enabling us to target the star clusters nearest to it along the arc.

Our MSA catalogs include entries for blank sky regions where we will obtain spectra to measure backgrounds. Most were identified as blank in JWST or HST imaging. Some were outside those fields of view and could contain objects, yielding serendipitous spectra.

The catalogs also include reference objects, measured to be compact (or have compact cores) and isolated as determined in NIRCam images and HST F814W (obtained November 2019) for wider coverage.