---
id: 2285
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/FS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Adam Carnall"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "8"
program_title: "A Massive Quiescent Galaxy at Redshift 4.657"
type: "GO"
---
# 2285 - A Massive Quiescent Galaxy at Redshift 4.657
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2285
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template            | Science Target     |
| :---- | :---------------------------- | :----------------- |
|       | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (1) GOODSS-9209    |
|       | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (1) GOODSS-9209    |

*(Note: The "Label" column in the provided table is empty for both observations.)*

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose ultra-deep rest-frame UV-optical spectroscopy of the earliest robustly identified massive quiescent galaxy. Our target, GOODSS-9209, has a stellar mass of 10^11 Solar masses, a star formation rate (SFR) suppressed by at least 1 dex below the star-forming main sequence, and a spectroscopic redshift of 4.657, placing it just 1.25 Gyr after the Big Bang. This object provides a unique perspective on galaxy evolution during the first billion years, holding the key to understanding when and how baryonic feedback processes first began to arrest the extremely intense star

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This proposal targets a single, faint, high value galaxy at z=4.657 with medium-resolution spectroscopy using the NIRSpec fixed slits mode. Two filter+grating combinations are used: F170LP/G235M (3 hours) and F290LP/G395M (2 hours). The aim is to achieve an average continuum SNR=20 per pixel over the rest-frame wavelength interval from 3000-9300 Angstroms. These data will allow us to measure the current star-formation rate, star formation history and stellar metallicity of our target. The NRSIRS2 readout mode will be used, in order to keep the data volume within the required limits. Target acquisition will be through MSATA.