---
id: 2288
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/FS  MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Joshua Lothringer  Co-PI: Jeff Valenti"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "7.4"
program_title: "Formation and Impact of Silicate Clouds on L Dwarfs"
type: "GO"
---
# 2288 - Formation and Impact of Silicate Clouds on L Dwarfs
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2288
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label          | Observing Template                 | Science Target     |
| :------------- | :--------------------------------- | :----------------- |
| NIRSpec Slit   | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy    | (1) 2148+4003      |
| MIRI MRS       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) 2148+4003      |
| NIRSpec Slit   | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy    | (2) 0624-4521      |
| MIRI MRS       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) 0624-4521      |

## ABSTRACT

We will obtain R~2700 spectra from 1-28 µm of two ~L6 brown dwarfs with S/N~100 or better shortward of 10 µm. In existing IRS spectra, 2MASS 2148+4005 has a broad 8-10 µm absorption feature suggestive of silicates, while the otherwise similar 2MASS 0624-4521 has weak silicate absorption at best. We will use these spectra to distinguish sharp molecular features from broad absorption (e.g., due to silicates), to study cloud formation in L dwarfs, to detect trace species that would be diluted at low resolution, to probe different layers in the photosphere, to constrain physical properties, to uncover deficiencies in atmosphere models, and to identify flaws in existing opacity data (e.g., line broadening). We encourage rapid independent analysis and publication of these data by the community to provide a strong foundation for the next round of observing proposals.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will obtain spectra with three NIRSpec settings (G140H/F100LP, G235H, G395H) and with all three MRS settings (short, medium, long). For each setting, we will observe at four dither positions to improve calibration and mitigate bad pixels. We split dithers for the NIRSpec settings between two slits (S200A1, S200A2) to fill the wavelength gap between detectors. The result will be continuous wavelength coverage from 1-28 micron at R~2700.

For the MRS observations, we obtain simultaneous imaging in the three longest wavelength filters (F1800W, F2100W, and F2550W) with short ramps (5 groups) repeated 10 times. Our goal is to detect deviations from Rayleigh Jeans, e.g., due to emission from warm dust or very high extinction.

We use the "Sequence Observations Non-interruptible" special requirement to specify that the MIRI visit for a target should immediately follow the corresponding NIRSpec visit. Within each visit, we order settings in ascending wavelength order. This enables us to use the wavelength overlap between consecutive settings (even across instruments) to measure target variability and/or to check consistency of flux calibration.

We perform target acquisition for each NIRSpec visit, but skip target acquisition for the MIRI visit. The sequence non-interruptible special requirement (for astrophysical reasons) means centering in the MRS aperture will be perfectly adequate without a target acquisition.