---
id: 2297
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRISS/AMI"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Tomas Stolker"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 5.1
program_title: "Unveiling Formation Signatures in the Atmosphere of beta Pictoris c"
type: "GO"
---
# 2297 - Unveiling Formation Signatures in the Atmosphere of beta Pictoris c
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2297
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label   | Observing Template                      | Science Target |
| :------ | :-------------------------------------- | :------------- |
| Beta Pic | NIRISS Aperture Masking Interferometry | (1) -BET-PIC   |
| PSF Ref | NIRISS Aperture Masking Interferometry | (2) HD-40733   |

---

## ABSTRACT

Beta Pictoris is a unique laboratory for studying the formation of giant exoplanets. The system contains two directly imaged planets with dynamically inferred masses, therefore it is a treasure for comparative exoplanetology and calibration of planet formation and evolution models. The presence of the second planet, which was discovered through radial velocity measurements, has recently been confirmed with GRAVITY at a separation of 2.7 au. Since beta Pic b orbits at 9.8 au, this system resembles a young and more massive instance of the giant planets in our Solar System. The K band spectrum indicates that beta Pic c is cooler and smaller than beta Pic b but the chemical characteristics of beta Pic c remain unknown. We propose NIRISS/AMI observations at F380M, F430M, and F480M to quantify the atmospheric composition of beta Pic c. At these wavelengths, we will be sensitive to the carbon content of the atmosphere which, together with the available K band spectrum, will enable us to set unique constraints on both the carbon-to-oxygen ratio and the metallicity of beta Pic c. Additionally, the extended wavelength coverage of the spectral energy distribution will allow for a more accurate measurement of the radius and bolometric luminosity. Altogether, the proposed observations provide us with the exciting opportunity to study for the first time the chemical composition of a giant exoplanet at an orbital separation comparable to Jupiter. The combined constraints on the chemical composition and the macrophysical properties will unveil important clues about the formation history of beta Pic c.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The proposal aims at the atmospheric characterization of the directly imaged exoplanet beta Pictoris c. We will observe beta Pictoris and a PSF reference (HD 40733) with NIRISS aperture masking interferometry at F480M, F380M, and F430M. The observations will be executed in a non-interruptible sequence and the order of the filters minimizes the motion of the filter wheel between subsequent observations. We aim for an SNR > 100 with the target acquisition to achieve a centroiding accuracy <0.05 pixels. The exposure times were calculated by following the recommenced observing strategy that a detection requires 100/contrast^2 photons. We used the ETC (see workbook #60901) to verify that we can only use 1 group to prevent saturation for this bright target (3.48 in L' and M'). In F380M, we expect that 1 pixel will saturate but this will not impact our science goals. The total exposure time amounts 2115s for beta Pic and 2400s for the PSF reference. Given the brightness of beta Pic, we will use the SUB80 subarray and the NISRAPID readout pattern. We do not perform any dithering to minimize the effect of persistence. The orbits of beta Pic b and beta Pic c have a nearly edge-on inclination so the observations need to be carried out between 01-Sep-2023 and 01-Feb-2024 to observe beta Pic c with a maximum separation from both beta Pic A and beta Pic b. The total requested telescope time is 5.1h.