---
id: 2301
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: John Mackereth"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "12.1"
program_title: "Unearthing the Fossilized Andromeda Galaxy: A Spectroscopic Pilot Survey of M31 Giants"
type: "GO"
---
# 2301 - Unearthing the Fossilized Andromeda Galaxy: A Spectroscopic Pilot Survey of M31 Giants
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2301
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                               | Observing Template             | Science Target               |
| :---------------------------------- | :----------------------------- | :--------------------------- |
| NIRCam-PreImaging BRIGHT2, both modules | NIRCam Imaging                 | (200) PREIMAGING+BRICK13     |
| Plan 04                             | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (203) REVISED-CATALOG-11NOV2022 |
| bNatafSchiavonSelection V5b         | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (205) input_catalogue_v4B    |

---

## ABSTRACT

Galaxy evolution models are strongly underpinned by anchoring constraints made locally in the Milky Way. In this proposal, we aim to perform a pilot study toward providing a secondary local anchor in the form of a detailed mapping in element abundances of the stellar populations of the Andromeda galaxy, M31. Primarily, we will use NIRSpec spectroscopy of giant stars to study element abundances in the old disk of M31, establishing whether it plays host to a dichotomy in the ratio of its alpha-element abundances relative to Iron. Such a feature is readily observed in the Milky Way, and thought to be indicative of an early and rapid assembly of its mass. These pilot observations towards larger spectroscopic surveys of the M31 disk will allow us to discriminate between the myriad models which are now proposed for the origin of this feature in the Milky Way. This will place the first stake of true galactic archaeology in Andromeda, opening the door to more detailed future studies which will attempt to reconstruct the star formation history and more fully constrain the history of mass assembly in our nearest giant disk.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This proposal will observe 229 red giants in the disk of M31, selected using HST WFC-3 photometry from the PHAT survey. We will use NIRSpec in multi-object spectroscopy mode to obtain medium resolution NIR spectra using the G140M/F100LP and G235M/F170LP grating/filter combinations. Targets are selected between F160W of 19.5 and 19.0 (Vega), which will allow us to obtain SNR of upward of 30-50 in the relevant regions of the spectra, where we intend to use molecular features to measure Carbon, Nitrogen and Oxygen abundances, as well as Metallicity.

Three target configurations will be observed adopting a 2 shutter slitlet nod pattern and 80 shutter dither in the dispersion direction, for a total of four exposures per grating/filter for each configuration. Each exposure will consist of one integration with 60 groups in NRSIRS2RAPID readout mode, for a total of 889s per exposure - totalling a roughly 1 hour integration per target.