---
id: 2304
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Laura Kreidberg"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 17.9
program_title: "Hot Take on a Cool World: Does Trappist-1c Have an Atmosphere?"
type: "GO"
---
# 2304 - Hot Take on a Cool World: Does Trappist-1c Have an Atmosphere?
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2304
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :---- | :----------------- | :------------- |
|       | MIRI Imaging       | (1) TRAPPIST-1 |
|       | MIRI Imaging       | (1) TRAPPIST-1 |
|       | MIRI Imaging       | (1) TRAPPIST-1 |
|       | MIRI Imaging       | (1) TRAPPIST-1 |

---

## ABSTRACT

Rocky exoplanets are abundant in the Galaxy. However, it is still unknown how often, and under what conditions, these small worlds can maintain atmospheres. Here we propose to measure thermal emission from the dayside of TRAPPIST-1c, a terrestrial exoplanet with temperature similar to that of Venus. This planet is the coolest rocky world with thermal emission that can be detected with JWST. Our observations will constrain the planet's surface pressure and the atmospheric carbon dioxide abundance, and distinguish at 4 sigma confidence between a bare rock planet and a Venus-like composition. The presence of a thick atmosphere would be a positive indication that the TRAPPIST-1 planets formed in a volatile-rich environment, motivating an aggressive observing program for the cooler, potentially habitable planets in this remarkable system.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Our observations consist of time series photometry during four eclipses of the planet TRAPPIST-1c. For each eclipse, the observations will be performed with the MIRI F1500W filter and must be executed in a continuous sequence. Each of the four visits must be timed to coincide with eclipses of the planet (which occur approximately every 2.4 days).