---
id: 2317
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Yu Cheng  Co-PIs: Morten Andersen, Jonathan Tan, Ruben Fedriani, and Massimo Robberto"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "2.8"
program_title: "Initial Mass Function in the Lowest Metallicity Protocluster in the Galaxy"
type: "GO"
---
# 2317 - Initial Mass Function in the Lowest Metallicity Protocluster in the Galaxy
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2317
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label          | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :------------- | :----------------- | :------------- |
| NIRCAM 1 field | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) SH2-284    |

---

## ABSTRACT

The formation of stars at low metallicities, and in particular the determination of their characteristic mass scales, is a central problem in galaxy formation and evolution, i.e., to understand the properties of the high redshift universe. However, measurements of the initial mass function (IMF) in low metallicity environments have been limited because of the distance to the regions and the corresponding difficulty in characterizing low-mass sources. Studies have been performed in the Magellanic Clouds, but here the stellar populations could not be probed to the lowest masses, i.e., below the mass where the Galactic field star IMF is found to peak (~0.25 Msun for a log-normal fit). Here we propose to study the IMF in Sh2-284, at a distance of 4.5 kpc, the lowest metallicity star-forming region in the Galaxy. With the unique sensitivity of NIRCAM on JWST together with the access to the water band filters that trace the effective temperature of low-mass objects, we will be able to accurately characterize individual stars and brown dwarfs and to discriminate between background objects and cluster members down to a mass limit of 15 Jupiter masses. This is sufficient to reach past the expected IMF peak, precisely determine its shape at the low-mass end, and measure the star to brown dwarf ratio, all achieved for the first time in a metal poor environment.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This is a NIRCam program to image a massive star forming region that has the lowest metallicity known in the Galaxy. The observations are designed to characterise the stellar and brown dwarf content. We require a single pointing with Fullbox6 dither pattern to cover a 6'x2.5' field of view.Three filters will be used in each of the SW and LW arms for a total of 6 filters observed. The SW filter F162M, F182M and F200W will be used to enable a mass estimation for substellar objects or brown dwarfs, by measuring the water absorption feature at 1.82um that is sensitive to Teff. F356W will be used to trace the infrared excess of circumstellar discs in the region. The narrow band F470N and F405N will be obtained to study the accretion/outflow activities. Overall the data will be used to derive effective temperatures of the cluster content, determine the fraction of objects with circumstellar disks and to determine the spatial distribution of sources. There are no special observing requirements.

Modifed at September, 2021.
Slightly shifted position; a special requirement for PA is added.
The combination of these two is to make sure the cluster is located
at the center of one module in a fullbox pattern.
A subpixel dither is added to improve the PSF sampling (accordingly
we use Fullbox tightgap3 instead of Fullbox6 )