---
id: 2319
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Matthew Hooton"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 24.9
program_title: "TOI-178: The Best Laboratory for Testing Planetary Formation Theories"
type: "GO"
---
# 2319 - TOI-178: The Best Laboratory for Testing Planetary Formation Theories
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2319
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label      | Observing Template                   | Science Target |
| :--------- | :----------------------------------- | :------------- |
| TOI-178d   | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series    | (1) TOI-178    |
| TOI-178g   | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series    | (1) TOI-178    |
| TOI-178g   | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series    | (1) TOI-178    |
| TOI-178b   | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series    | (1) TOI-178    |

## ABSTRACT

The atmospheric characterisation of multiple exoplanets in the same system can provide a window into the processes that underpinned their formation and evolution. The planetary C/O ratios are of particular interest as they encode information about where the planet formed with respect to different ice lines, but precise measurements of this using current instrumentation have proved challenging. Recent observations have revealed that the nearby late K-type star TOI-178 hosts a compact system of at least six transiting exoplanets with R < 3 Earth radii, five of which form a chain of Laplacian resonances. Alongside the fact that the large planet-to-planet density variations present in the system appear difficult to theoretically explain, its resonant chain and large atmospheric signal sizes provide a well-constrained laboratory to test the main formation theories. We propose to use JWST/NIRSpec in BOTS mode with the G395M grating to observe single transits of TOI-178 b, d, and g, providing an atmospheric characterisation of planets that span the full range of known orbital separations from the host. Amongst other things, our mock retrievals suggest that the strong constraints that we will be able to place on the abundances of H2O, CO, CO2, and CH4 will enable a precise derivation of the C/O for each planet. The combination of these measurements will facilitate the first detailed observational study using the C/O to test whether multiple planets in the same system formed in situ or migrated to their current positions.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We are proposing to conduct a small programme of ~ 24.85 hr including overheads to observe single transits of TOI-178 b, d, and g using NIRSpec in Bright Object Times Series (BOTS) mode and the default S1600A1 slit. We will use the G395M grating with the F290LP filter and the SUB2048 subarray. This provides resolving power of 1000 with wavelength coverage spanning 2.87-5.10 microns.

For each planet, we calculated the visit duration (or dwell time) for JWST observations of transiting exoplanets, given by Tdwell = 0.75 hr (detector settling) + max(1 hr, T14/2) (before transit) +T14 (transit) + max(1 hr, T14/2) (after transit) + 1 hr (timing window), where T14 is the total transit duration. Taken together, this ensures that both the transit and sufficient out-of-transit baseline are acquired, that the detector has sufficient time to settle, and the observation is sufficiently long to provide flexibility with the scheduling window. Respectively for planets b, c, and d, the transit durations of 1.65, 2.28, and 2.19 hr result in visit durations of 5.40, 6.31, and 6.13 hr.

For our observations, we set the number of groups per integration to be the maximum that ensures that none of the pixels in the detector exceeds 80% of its full well capacity. For TOI-178 (Kmag = 8.656) with the NRSRAPID readout mode and the SUB2048 subarray, this occurred at 7 groups per integration. To cover the calculated visit durations, we used single exposures with 2697, 3150, and 3060 integrations for planets b, d, and g, respectively. At the resolution element corresponding to a wavelength of 3.95 microns, this achieves a SNR of 157 per frame, which corresponds to a precision on the transit depth of 267, 237, and 241 ppm. In practice, we will combine the data into wavelength bins to achieve an SNR that is sufficiently high to robustly detect the expected molecular features at these wavelengths.