---
id: 2327
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Andrew Skemer  Co-PIs: Caroline Morley and Brittany Miles"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "13.7"
program_title: "Water Ice Clouds and Weather on the Coldest Brown Dwarf"
type: "GO"
---
# 2327 - Water Ice Clouds and Weather on the Coldest Brown Dwarf
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2327
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template            | Science Target                      |
| :---- | :---------------------------- | :---------------------------------- |
| 1     | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) WISE-J085510.74-071442.5 |

---

## ABSTRACT

Exoplanets and brown dwarfs colder than 350K are predicted to have water ice clouds in their photospheres. Of these, the best candidate for early JWST studies of hydrological cycles is the nearby, cold, free-floating brown dwarf, WISE 0855. WISE 0855 shows evidence for water clouds, and with an effective temperature of 250 K, its spectrum is similar to Jupiter's. But, crucially, WISE 0855 is warm enough to lack the thick ammonia clouds blanketing Jupiter, giving us a clear view of its water clouds. In this proposal we seek to obtain a time-series G395M spectrum to unambiguously detect WISE 0855's solid-state water ice feature, probe its variability, and look for spectral correlations between water vapor and water ice in a time series that could be due to evaporation and condensation. The data will provide our first opportunity to study the hydrological cycle of an extrasolar world.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The proposal is to obtain an 11 hours time-series observation of a cold brown dwarf using the NIRSPEC G395M grating in BOTS mode. The acquisitions will be WATA with the SUB2048 subarray and the clear filter. The target has a large proper motion and parallax, which are known. There are no scientific requirements for when the observations must take place. The observation is non-interruptible. No parallel observations are planned.