---
id: 2334
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Mario Damiano"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 14.4
program_title: "Exploring the Nature of a Temperate Exoplanet in the Fulton Gap"
type: "GO"
---
# 2334 - Exploring the Nature of a Temperate Exoplanet in the Fulton Gap
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2334
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :---- | :---------------------------------- | :-------------------- |
| 1     | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series   | (1) NAME-G-268-38B    |
| 2     | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series   | (1) NAME-G-268-38B    |

---

## ABSTRACT

Among the main sequence stars, the sub-group comprising smaller and cooler stars than theSun, e.g. M-dwarfs, represents the ideal environment to discover and characterize temperateterrestrial planets. With an equilibrium temperature <300K LHS 1140b is an important target to expand the knowledge on the habitability of cool small planets. The measured mass and radius of LHS 1140b are compatible with a rocky core with an envelope. The radius (1.7 Rearth) places the planet right in the middle of the Fulton gap. HST observations have set hints on the possibility of a H2-dominated envelope with the presence of H2O. However, the star has shown activity on its surface and this is likely to contamine the planetary spectral signature especially in the optical and HST/WFC3 wavelength ranges. We propose to use NIRSpec to measure the planet's transmission spectrum at 1.7 – 5.2 microns, and we expect the precision achieved not only will definitely disentangle the stellar activity spectral signature from the planetary spectrum, but also shed light onto the nature of LHS 1140b atmosphere.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will acquire a transmission spectrum of the temperate exoplanet LHS 1440 b with NIRSpec, using the G235H and G395H gratings to cover the wavelength range 1.7 – 5.2 microns. We propose to observe one transit with G235H and another one with G395H to achieve a precision of 30 – 65 ppm per spectral element at a resolution of R ~ 100.

We choose the number of groups to keep the saturation level within 60%, to make sure that the observations would be well within the detector's linear regime and maximize the efficiency of the observations. We perform target acquisition (TA) on the target itself.

As it is recommended for exoplanet transit observations, we include an out-of-transit portion of the light curve. This is necessary to establish a baseline from which the transit depth can be determined and which instrumental systematics can be modelled. For each visit, we include 176 minutes of baseline for the 117-minute transit, half of which is before the transit, and half of which is after. Additionally, since any timing constraint narrower than 1 hour is considered “tight” and incurs a 1-hour scheduling overhead penalty, we use a timing window of exactly 1 hour, centered at 88+30= 118 minutes before the predicted start of the transit. The extra baseline also gives the instrument time to stabilize and thus reduce systematics.