---
id: 2344
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/FS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Patricia Schady  Co-PI: Nial Tanvir"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "24.9"
program_title: "Mapping Emission and Absorption Line Metallicities onto the Same Univeral Scale"
type: "GO"
---
# 2344 - Mapping Emission and Absorption Line Metallicities onto the Same Univeral Scale
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2344
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label        | Observing Template              | Science Target      |
| :----------- | :------------------------------ | :------------------ |
| GRB150403A   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy        | (1) GRB150403A      |
| GRB080804    | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (3) GRB-080804      |
| GRB120815A   | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (5) GRB-120815A     |
| GRB050820A   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy        | (7) GRB-050820A     |
| GRB050820A   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy        | (7) GRB-050820A     |
| GRB120327A   | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (9) GRB-120327A     |
| GRB141109A   | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (11) GRB-141109A    |
| GRB030323    | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (13) GRB-030323     |
| GRB090323    | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (15) GRB-090323     |
| GRB050505    | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (17) GRB-050505     |
| GRB050505    | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (17) GRB-050505     |
| GRB100219A   | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (19) GRB-100219A    |
| GRB100219A   | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (19) GRB-100219A    |

---

## ABSTRACT

The metallicity of galaxies across cosmic epoch is a pillar of galaxy evolution models. JWST aims to revolutionise metallicity determinations of distant and fainter populations of galaxies that have been out of reach with current technology, to trace the history of cosmic chemical enrichment and its relation to star formation. However, metallicity estimates based on emission line spectroscopy generally rely on line indices that are calibrated at lower redshifts, and often have significant scatter or are multi-valued. Another route to abundance determinations at z>2 is via absorption spectroscopy of gamma-ray burst afterglows. Thanks to their brightness, in some cases this has allowed highly detailed studies of the cold gas phase of the GRB hosts along the line of sight to the burst. Although some of this gas must lie close to the burst, absorption tends to be dominated by gas at tens or hundreds of pc from the burst locatior. These systems therefore provide an excellent characterisation of the host abundances.
We propose a JWST/NIRSpec spectroscopic study of a sample of 10 GRB host galaxies at 2.0<z<4.7 where such absorption-based, detailed abundance analyses have already been conducted, thus enabling the first cross-calibration of absorption and emission line metallicities within the same star-forming galaxies. GRBs occur preferentially in low to moderate metallicity hosts and likely represent prototypical high-redshift star-forming galaxies. Our proposed program will thus provide a foundational mapping between accurate absorption abundance results and common emission line diagnostics that will be of wide value across the JWST program portfolio.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

In this proposal we wish to obtain JWST/NIRSpec fixed slit spectroscopy of 10 long GRB host galaxies at z=2-5 in order to measure Halpha, Hbeta, and the nebular [OII] and [OIII] emission line doublets at S/N>5 from which we can derive an emission line metallicity using the R23 and O32 diagnostics. All targets in our sample have precise, dust-depletion corrected absorption metallicities measured from neutral hydrogen and metal lines imprinted on the GRB afterglow by intervening material, which when combined with emission-line metallicities, will allow us to (i) provide the first cross-calibration of emission and absorption line metallicities for co-spatial reqions of the same, star-forming galaxies, and (ii) to directly determine of the full cosmic metal budget of star-forming galaxies at cosmic noon. The results from this proposal will greatly improve our understanding of how absorption and emission line studies of cosmic chemical evolution compare, with the promise of providing emission line metallicity diagnostics directly calibrated to the conditions in high-z galaxies.