---
id: 2345
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU  NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Andrew Newman"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "13.7"
program_title: "Resolved Studies of a Unique Lensed Quiescent Galaxy at z=2: Testing Models of Assembly History, Quenching, and IMF Variations"
type: "GO"
---
# 2345 - Resolved Studies of a Unique Lensed Quiescent Galaxy at z=2: Testing Models of Assembly History, Quenching, and IMF Variations
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2345
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                          | Observing Template        | Science Target      |
| :----------------------------- | :------------------------ | :------------------ |
| M0138-OnSource-G140M           | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (1) MRGM0138-IFU    |
| M0138-OnSource-G140M- Repeat 1 | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (1) MRGM0138-IFU    |
| M0138-OffSource-G140M          | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (2) MRGM0138-BKG    |
| M0138-OffSource-G140M-Repeat 2 | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (2) MRGM0138-BKG    |
| M0138-OnSource-G235M           | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (1) MRGM0138-IFU    |
| M0138-OffSource-G235M          | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (2) MRGM0138-BKG    |
| M0138-Imaging                  | NIRCam Imaging            | (3) MRGM0138-IMAGE  |

## ABSTRACT

Observations of quiescent galaxies at redshifts z~2 have yielded many surprises, often upending contemporary models. JWST will undoubtedly provide further unexpected discoveries regarding the properties and progenitors of this key galaxy population. However, it will remain a challenge to study their internal structures and resolved stellar populations. We propose NIRSpec IFU observations of a strongly lensed massive quiescent galaxy that is, by far, the brightest high-redshift example. Studying this unique object will enable us to dissect a z=1.95 massive galaxy, seen ~1 Gyr after quenching, at a level of detail unprecedented beyond the local universe and impractical for any other known z~2 source. We will (1) spatially resolve detailed star formation histories and stellar chemical abundances of the bulge and inner and outer disk, revealing key formation events to test proposed connections between a central gas-rich starburst and galaxy-wide quenching; (2) produce the first 2D stellar kinematic map of any high-z galaxy, enabling us to assess whether the quenching process was linked to kinematic transformations; (3) produce the first 2D map of neutral gas in a high-z quiescent galaxy via ISM absorption and determine whether this gas sustains low-level star formation; and (4) probe the possible origins of the initial mass function (IMF) variations claimed in local early-type galaxies by comparing the IMFs of stars born in the bulge and disk. These detailed insights into the spatially resolved formation history of a massive quiescent galaxy are only possible for this unique target combined with the resolution, sensitivity, and wavelength coverage of JWST.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose NIRSpec IFU observations of a lensed quiescent galaxy at z=1.95 using both the G140M and G235M grisms. The WATA mode will be used for acquisition. The offset target is either a star or a very compact galaxy based on HST imaging. Because of the angular extent of the target, equal exposures of a nearby background field are needed for subtraction. In order to mitigate any flux from other objects in the field (either in stuck open shutters or bleeding through the MSA), we will perform the standard 4-point dither pattern before moving to the background field and repeating the same pattern. We request a V3PA range of 30-60 deg for optimal placement of the target along the IFU diagonal. The precise IFU pointing may need to be refined (at the sub-arcsecond level) once the PA is set in the long-range plan. We also request that data with the two grisms be taken at a common PA, ensuring complete spectral coverage in each spaxel, and that the target and background exposures for each grism be taken non-interruptibly following the APT recommendation. Finally, we also request a brief NIRCam image using a standard 4-point dither pattern.