---
id: 2347
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/LRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Lisa Dang"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 24.9
program_title: "A Hell of a Phase Curve: Mapping the Surface and Atmosphere of a Lava Planet K2-141b"
type: "GO"
---
# 2347 - A Hell of a Phase Curve: Mapping the Surface and Atmosphere of a Lava Planet K2-141b
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2347
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label              | Observing Template                  | Science Target |
| :----------------- | :---------------------------------- | :------------- |
| K2-141b (ph1)      | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy    | (1) K2-141     |

---

## ABSTRACT

The CoRoT, Kepler and K2 missions have revealed a new class of planet, so-called lava planets, which have bulk densities consistent with terrestrial composition, but dayside temperatures hot enough to melt—and vaporize—rock. Of these planets, the most promising candidate for atmospheric and surface characterization is K2-141b: it has a density of 8 g/cm^3, a dayside temperature measured by Spitzer to be 2125 K, and an orbital period of 6.7 hrs around a J=9 star. We propose to monitor K2-141b for three complete orbits of the planet with MIRI LRS for just under 21 hrs of time. These observations will allow us to measure the vertical atmospheric structure on the dayside of the planet via the 9 micron SiO feature, to determine the presence of an extended atmosphere via the planet's nightside temperature, and to search for rock clouds that might form as the supersonic winds blowing towards the nightside cool and condense. JWST is uniquely suited to detect SiO in emission spectra of lava planets and MIRI LRS is the only instrument able to probe low nightside planetary temperatures to place stringent constraints on the presence of a global atmosphere. The combination of the strong signal expected from K2-141b and the large contrast at long wavelengths, makes MIRI LRS observations of K2-141b the approach for testing theories of cloud formation in a fully condensable atmosphere, and testing atmospheric loss on the extreme scenario of a planet skimming its star's corona.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to observe K2-141b (J=9) with MIRI LRS continuously for 3 full-orbit phase curves bringing the total science time requested to around 20.5 hours and a total charged time just under 25 hours. We will use the F1500W filter with the FAST readout mode to perform target acquisition. With 4 groups per integration, this bring the total target acquisition time to a negligible 0.64 s. The MIRI LRS uses the FAST mode to read the SLITLESSPRISM subarray for its slitless time-series observations. We used pandexo to simulate JWST observations and to find the optimal maximum possible number of groups before saturation of the detector. Our proposed observations have the following configuration: N_group = 41 per integration with 7 seconds integrations for a total of 11359 integrations resulting in a total data volume of 36836 MB.
We request that our observations do not start within 30 minutes of a transit or eclipse, hence between orbital phases theta = [0.15-0.35] or [0.65-0.85]. Additionally, the K2-141 system includes a 7.7 days period outer planet, K2-141c. We request that our observations occur outside of the 1-hour transit and eclipse of K2-141c, which still leaves two 90 hours windows per orbital period of planet c.

---