---
id: 2348
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU  MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Samaporn Tinyanont"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "3"
program_title: "Chemistry of Mass Loss in the Interacting Stripped-Envelope Supernova 2014C"
type: "GO"
---
# 2348 - Chemistry of Mass Loss in the Interacting Stripped-Envelope Supernova 2014C
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2348
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                  | Observing Template                   | Science Target             |
| :--------------------- | :----------------------------------- | :------------------------- |
| NIRSpec IFU            | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy             | (2) SN2014C-FOR-NIRSPEC    |
| MIRI MRS               | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy  | (1) SN2014C-FOR-MIRI       |
| MIRI MRS Backgroun d | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy  | (3) SN2014C-BACKGROUND     |

## ABSTRACT

Supernova (SN) 2014C is a rare massive stellar death, in which a hydrogen-poor progenitor star explodes and interacts with its lost hydrogen-rich envelope. This is unlike most other stripped-envelope (SE) SNe that explode long after the envelope is stripped, and never show signs of interactions. The mass loss process that creates SESNe is not well understood, and SN 2014C presents us with an unprecedented opportunity to probe the history of mass loss of a SESN progenitor by observing the still ongoing interaction. Previous IR observations have revealed a tentative sign of silicate dust in the CSM, unlike other interacting SNe. We propose to obtain near- to mid-infrared spectroscopy of SN 2014C with NIRSpec IFU and MIRI MRS. These observations will probe emission features of different dust species, allowing us to confirm the presence of silicate dust and to robustly measure the dust composition in the CSM. They will also allow us to detect other molecular species, probing the gas chemistry of the CSM and other properties. We will compare the IR spectroscopic signatures of the CSM of SN 2014C to that around well-observed massive stars in the Milky Way and the Magellanic Clouds, to constrain what type of stars are able to produce SESNe. These observations are timely as the SN will inevitably fade away.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We request NIRSpec IFU and MIRI MRS observations of an interacting SN 2014C. For NIRSpec IFU, we request the G235H/F170LP and G395H/F290LP grating/filter combinations. For MIRI MRS, we request all 3 grating settings. We also request simultaneous MIRI imaging to retrieve precise astrometry to locate the SN in the IFU field of view. For both NIRSpec and MIRI, we request the standard 4-point dithering/nodding patterns to improve the spatial sampling. The SN has a bright and potentially complicated galaxy background, so we request an additional pointing to observe the background away from the galaxy only for MIRI (telescope background is negligible compared to the source for NIRSpec). We ask for no dither for this pointing.