---
id: 2358
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Ryan MacDonald"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 13.3
program_title: "Under the Light of a Dead Star: Revealing the Atmospheric Composition of a White Dwarf Planet"
type: "GO"
---
# 2358 - Under the Light of a Dead Star: Revealing the Atmospheric Composition of a White Dwarf Planet
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2358
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
**1. List of Labels, Corresponding Observing Templates, and Science Targets**

| Folder Observation | Label          | Observing Template             | Science Target       |
| :----------------- | :------------- | :----------------------------- | :------------------- |
| WD 1856b           | Prism Transit 1 | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (2) WD1856B          |
| 2                  | Prism Transit 2 | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (2) WD1856B          |
| 3                  | Prism Transit 3 | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (2) WD1856B          |
| 4                  | Prism Transit 4 | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (2) WD1856B          |
| 30                 | Clone of Obs 3 | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (3) WD-1856+534-B |

---

## ABSTRACT

Around 50 worlds beyond our solar system have undergone atmospheric characterization in the last 20 years. Despite the incredible diversity of exoplanets studied to date, all these worlds share one common aspect: their planets orbit main sequence stars. Until recently, the question of the conditions in planetary atmospheres following the death of their star has been the sole purview of theoretical speculation.
Recently, Vanderburg et al. (2020) reported the first transiting planet orbiting a white dwarf: WD 1856b. This planet provides our first opportunity to study the atmospheres of post-main sequence planets.
We propose to conduct the first atmospheric reconnaissance of WD 1856b. The short transit duration of WD 1856b (8 minutes) allows us to rapidly construct an exquisitely high-quality transmission spectrum in a fraction of the typical time required to study transiting exoplanets. With just four transits (8 science hours) with the NIRSpec Prism, we will achieve the first precision characterization of a post-main sequence planet and the first exploration of a cool giant exoplanet (~160 K) of similar temperature to Jupiter. Despite the short time allocation of our program, we expect to achieve some remarkable firsts in exoplanet science: the first detections of CH4, NH3, and PH3 in a transiting exoplanet atmosphere, and hence knowledge of the C/H, N/H, P/H, and O/H ratios of an exoplanet atmosphere for the first time. Our program will also allow a lower bound to be placed on WD 1856b's mass, constraining its migration history. The atmospheric constraints provided by this program will offer the first glimpse into the future of planetary systems like our solar system.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

These observations aim to conduct the first atmospheric reconnaissance of the only known transiting white dwarf planet, WD 1856b. To meet our science goals, the achievable precision of the observations need to be as high as possible. We will use NIRSpec/PRISM in BOTS (Bright Object Time Series) mode, which requires the S1600A1 aperture with a fixed 1.6" x 1.6” field of view (FoV). We will carry out our observations with the SUB2048 in NRSRAPID mode. We will use an identical observing strategy over four transit events of the planet to increase the precision obtained over all wavelengths and will not be conducting parallel observations. Each observation will consist of 240 integrations with 33 groups per integration, resulting in integrations that will not exceed 80% full well, avoiding saturation, while maintaining an exposure efficiency of 94.1%. Our observation start time is constrained to 0.75 - 1.75 hours pre-mid transit, ending 0.25 - 1.25 hours after mid-transit. This ensures that we can discard the first 30-45 minutes of each observation if necessary due to detector ramp effects, while still ensuring that the total observation time still captures information prior, during, and after the transit event for adequate stellar base-lining. Our target is visible to JWST for over half of cycle 1 with transit events occurring every ~ 1.4 days, so many transit events are observable inside the window. Obtaining four transit observations should therefore be easy to schedule.
We will perform target acquisition directly on our target star, WD 1856+534, using the Wide Aperture Target Acquisition (WATA) mode with the SUB32 subarray and the F110W filter. The readout pattern will use the NRSRAPIDD6 mode with 3 groups per integration and 1 integration, resulting in a 0.26 second exposure time. Our target acquisition strategy allows us to avoid saturation while still achieving a SNR of 59.79.
2022-10-13 comment by Valenti: Obs 1, 2, and 4 all failed target acquisition because target 2 was not specified properly. See target 3 comment for details. Obs 3 was skipped and ultimately the director approved a repeat. I created Obs 30 to serve as the repeat of Obs 3, which is now locked. Obs 30 observes the newly created target 3, which has parameters from Gaia DR3.
2022-10-19 comment by Valenti: Adopted time of mid-transit and orbital period from Alonso+ (2021) instead of Vanderburg+ (2020). Zero-phase (transit time) is BJD 2458779.375086 instead of BJD 2458779.3750828. Orbital period is 1.40793913 d instead of 1.4079389 d. Vanderburg+ (2020) give transit duration (t14) of 7.998 min = 479.880 s. Phase range is now [0.9512881814265912, 0.9808822638544776] instead of [0.9482103472908756, 0.9778044345532324]. With this new phase range, the science exposure will begin 5926 s to 2326 s before mid-transit. This gives a minimum baseline of 1200 s (2.5 x t14) after the transit ends (t4) instead of only 825 s. Given the fixed exposure duration of 7365.235 s, this leaves a minimum settling time of 886 s = 14.8 minutes, on top of the minimum pre-transit baseline of 1200 s and 3600 s of start time flexibility. As a check, 2326 - 886 - 1200 - 480/2 = 0.