---
id: 2362
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/FS  NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Cemile Marsan  Co-PI: Adam Muzzin"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "8.6"
program_title: "Dawn of the Monsters: JWST Characterization of Extremely Massive Galaxies at z~5"
type: "GO"
---
# 2362 - Dawn of the Monsters: JWST Characterization of Extremely Massive Galaxies at z~5
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2362
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                  | Observing Template              | Science Target |
| :--------------------- | :------------------------------ | :------------- |
| 27397 - FS             | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (1) 27397      |
| 27397 - FS             | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (1) 27397      |
| 27397 - Imaging        | NIRCam Imaging                  | (1) 27397      |
| 27397 - Imaging        | NIRCam Imaging                  | (1) 27397      |
| 130302 - FS            | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (2) 130302     |
| 130302 - Imaging       | NIRCam Imaging                  | (2) 130302     |
| 130302 - Imaging       | NIRCam Imaging                  | (2) 130302     |
| 61265 - FS             | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (3) 61265      |
| 61265 - Imaging        | NIRCam Imaging                  | (3) 61265      |
| 61265 - Imaging        | NIRCam Imaging                  | (3) 61265      |

---

## ABSTRACT

Over the last twenty years increasingly deeper and wider near-infrared photometric surveys have identified evolved massive galaxies at continually higher redshifts. These rapidly-forming and quenching galaxies create significant tension with cosmological models of galaxy formation and highly constrain the implementation of AGN feedback physics. Using UltraVISTA/COSMOS, the deepest and widest-field near-IR survey to date we have identified three galaxies with Log(M/M_sun) > 11.5 at z ~ 5 with robust photometric redshifts. We propose deep medium-resolution NIRSpec spectroscopy in G235M/F170LP and G395M/F290LP, to target multiple prominent rest-frame optical absorption/emission lines, as well as NIRCam F444W and F200W imaging to determine morphologies. These data will be used to: 1) Confirm the redshifts and stellar masses of these extreme objects during the epoch when they form most of their stellar mass, 2) measure the star-formation rates, star-formation histories and mass distributions of these galaxies to constrain their assembly history, and 3) determine the source of ionization radiation and determine if they contain prominent AGN. The long-wavelength capability of JWST means this will be the first rest-frame optical study of massive galaxies during their peak formation epoch and will return key information on how such galaxies form so fast, so early. One of our candidates has an SED consistent with being a fully quenched and passive galaxy at z ~ 5. If confirmed, this will be by far the highest-redshift passive galaxy to date, and will have significant implications for AGN quenching models.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The observations proposed for in this program are NIRSpec FS spectroscopy and NIRCam imaging data for 3 very massive (M>10^{11.5}Msol) galaxies identified at z~5.

We will observe each target with two NIRSpec grating/filter combinations, G235M/F170LP and G395M/290LP, targeting the rest-frame optical wavelengths at the redshifts of targets. The exposure times and grating/filter choices of NIRSpec observations are chosen to pick out multiple emission features (e.g., OII, OIII, Balmer features), as well as to probe the stellar continuum of targets (especially D4000/Balmer breaks) to sufficient depth in order to decipher and constrain stellar population properties. The requested time with NIRSpec for all three targets is 6.1 hours, ~2.6hrs of which is devoted to science exposures.

With NIRCam, we will obtain simultaneous F200W and F444W imaging for each target. These will provide spatially resolved information regarding the size and morphologies of the proposed targets at rest-frame U and i bands. The exposure times for NIRCam imaging of each target are set to provide SNR>~100, the minimum required to accurately model 2D light profiles. The requested time with NIRCam for all three targets is 2.5 hours, with ~40 mins devoted to science exposures.

The total charged time requested is 8.58 hrs, 3.30 hrs of which is devoted to science exposures (5.28 hours of overheads).