---
id: 2368
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Christy Tremonti"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "19.8"
program_title: "What Lies Beneath: Understanding the Hidden Engines Driving Extreme Outflows and Galaxy Quenching"
type: "GO"
---
# 2368 - What Lies Beneath: Understanding the Hidden Engines Driving Extreme Outflows and Galaxy Quenching
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2368
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label             | Observing Template               | Science Target           |
| :---------------- | :------------------------------- | :----------------------- |
| J1107 Obs         | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) J1107+0417           |
| J1219 Obs         | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) J1219+0336           |
| J1506 Obs         | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) J1506+5402           |
| J1506 Back Obs    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (8) J1506-BACKGROUND     |
| J1613 Obs         | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) J1613+2834           |
| J1613 Back Obs    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (7) J1613-BACKGROUND     |
| J2118 Obs         | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (5) J2118+0017           |
| J2118 Back Obs    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (6) J2118-BACKGROUND     |

## ABSTRACT

A central problem in astrophysics regards the formation of massive galaxies, which models suggest may be driven by powerful, compact starbursts with energetic feedback. Most massive galaxies form at high redshift (z>3), but astronomers have recently discovered an exceptional low redshift (z~0.5) population of massive compact starbursts with powerful ionized and molecular outflows (velocities up to 3000 km/s and radii up to 50 kpc) that provide a unique testbed to observe this process in detail. A wide range of optical, mid-IR, molecular, and radio observations of these galaxies have illustrated their morphologies and the energetics of their outflows, but critical open questions remain that can only be answered with sensitive mid-IR spectroscopy with JWST: Is the powerful feedback driven by star formation or a hidden AGN? What are the precise rates of dust-obscured star formation? And do the galaxies drive outflows even in highly ionized gas? This proposal seeks MIRI medium-resolution spectroscopy of five representative compact starbursts to answer these questions, in order to definitively understand their formation processes and those of typical massive galaxies in the early Universe.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This is an MIRI medium resolution spectroscopy program to observe 5 compact massive starburst galaxies at z=0.4 - 0.6. Targets where selected to be bright in WISE W4 and to span a range in W1-W2 color, which is sensitive to obscured AGN activity. The galaxies are very compact and will likely be point sources at MIRIs resolution. However, 3 targets show spatially extended outflows and therefore we require separate background observations for them.

Our sources do not require a target acquisition exposure as standard JWST pointing accuracy is sufficient to place them on the IFU. We will use all of the MRS channels/bands to obtain wavelength coverage from 5-28 microns which corresponds to 3-19 um in the restframe of the galaxies. We use equal exposure times in all channels/bands to create a uniform dataset. We will use a standard 4-point dither for extended sources and the fast readout mode. We will acquire MIRI imaging in the F1130W filter simultaneously. The galaxies requre between 1 - 3 hours of exposure time each (totaled over all three bands and including time for off-scene nods). Observations can be scheduled in a single visit per galaxy.