---
id: 2372
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Renyu Hu"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 67.9
program_title: "Deep Characterization of the Atmosphere of a Temperate Sub-Neptune"
type: "GO"
---
# 2372 - Deep Characterization of the Atmosphere of a Temperate Sub-Neptune
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2372
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                               | Observing Template             | Science Target |
|-------------------------------------|--------------------------------|----------------|
| K2-18 b G235H                       | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) K2-18      |
| K2-18 b G235H                       | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) K2-18      |
| K2-18 b G395H                       | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) K2-18      |
| K2-18 b G395H - Repeat of observation 3 | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) K2-18      |
| K2-18 b G395H                       | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) K2-18      |
| K2-18 b G395H                       | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) K2-18      |
| K2-18 b G395H                       | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) K2-18      |

## ABSTRACT

Characterizing the atmospheres of small and temperate exoplanets observationally will make a great stride forward in determining their potential habitability. With an equilibrium temperature <300 K, the sub-Neptune K2-18 b has spectral features detected at 1.1 – 1.7 microns in transmission, and thus an H2/He-dominated atmosphere amenable for further characterization via transmission spectroscopy. This planet presents a uniquely low-risk path for detailed studies of its atmospheric composition, photochemistry, and potential habitability. We propose to use NIRSpec to measure the planet's transmission spectrum in 1.7 – 5.2 microns at a resolution of R=100. The transmission spectrum will be sensitive and precise enough to measure the abundances of H2O, CH4, NH3, CO2, and CO, constrain the cloud pressure, and detect photochemical products such as HCN and N2O in the atmosphere of K2-18 b. The combination of these gases would determine whether the planet is a mini-Neptune with a massive H2 atmosphere or an ocean planet with a thinner atmosphere. Our program will thus usher in an era of deep characterization of temperate and volatile-rich exoplanets.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will acquire a transmission spectrum of the temperate sub-Neptune K2-18 b with NIRSpec, using the G235H and G395H gratings to cover the wavelength range 1.7 – 5.2 microns. We propose to combine two transits with G235H and four transits with G395H to achieve a precision of ~20 ppm per spectral element at a resolution of R=100.

We choose the number of groups to keep the saturation level within 60%, to make sure that the observations would be well within the detector's linear regime and maximize the efficiency of the observations. Due to the brightness of K2-18 b, we perform target acquisition (TA) on a nearby star with precise position and proper motion from Gaia DR2.

As is recommended for exoplanet transit observations, we include an out-of-transit portion of the light curve. This is necessary to establish a baseline from which the transit depth can be determined and using which instrumental systematics can be modelled. For each visit, we include ~340 minutes of baseline for the 164-minutes (~2.73hrs) eclipse (data from Benneke et al. 2019) (in/out fraction equals to 0.48), half of which is before the eclipse, and half of which is after. Additionally, since any timing constraint narrower than 1 hour is considered “tight” and incurs a 1-hour scheduling overhead penalty, we use a timing window of exactly 1 hour, centered at 170+30 = 200 minutes before the predicted start of the transit. The extra baseline allows the instrument to stabilize and thus reduce systematics. The total time requested of each observation is ~8.9hrs which is well above the calculated "dwell" time recomanded by JDocs.