---
id: 2391
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging  NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Julia Roman-Duval"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "67.3"
program_title: "The Resolved Properties of PAHs at Low Metallicity"
type: "GO"
---
# 2391 - The Resolved Properties of PAHs at Low Metallicity
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2391
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :---- | :----------------- | :------------- |
| 2     | MIRI Imaging       | (1) IC-1613    |
| 6     | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) IC-1613    |
| 5     | MIRI Imaging       | (2) SEXTANS-A  |
| 9     | MIRI Imaging       | (2) SEXTANS-A  |
| 8     | MIRI Imaging       | (2) SEXTANS-A  |
| 7     | NIRCam Imaging     | (2) SEXTANS-A  |

---

## ABSTRACT

The NIR-MIR SED of galaxies is dominated by spectral features from polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon (PAH) molecules fluorescing in regions illuminated by FUV photons. In low metallicity systems (Z < 0.2 Zo), previous studies with Spitzer have revealed a substantial deficiency in the emission and abundance of PAHs, the origin of which remains unexplained due to the lack of deep, resolved, multi-band photometry or spectroscopy. We propose to obtain NIRCam and MIRI imaging to observe the 3.3, 7.7, and 11.3 micron PAH features in dusty star-forming regions in two low metallicity galaxies, IC 1613 (15% solar) and Sextans A (8% solar). The observations will allow us to 1) estimate the PAH properties, particularly their abundance, ionized fraction, and size distribution; and 2) correlate those properties with other tracers of the ISM, such as the star formation rate density, the distance and UV spectrum of massive stars, the distance to PAH-producing stellar sources, the ISM column density of gas and dust, and gas-phase abundances. By observing how the PAH properties and abundance vary with environment, we will constrain the mechanisms responsible for the formation, destruction, excitation, and low abundance of PAHs in those poorly shielded low metallicity environments. Since JWST will measure star formation rates as low as 10 Mo/yr from PAH emission at the peak of cosmic star formation at redshift z~2 when the average metallicity of the universe was about 10% solar, it is crucial that we deepen our physical understanding of PAHs at low metallicity. This proposal includes a joint HST 3 orbit request to map the dust extinction required to normalize the PAH abundance in IC 1613.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to obtain NIRCam and MIRI imaging in dusty star-forming regions in two low metallicity Local Group galaxies, IC 1613 (15% solar) and Sextans A (8% solar). The filters (F115W, F150W, F200W, F300M, F335M, F360M, F560W, F770W, F1000W, F1130W, F1500W) were selected to cover the PAH features at 3.3, 7.7, and 11.2 microns, as well as sample the SED in between, which includes a significant contribution from starlight that needs to be estimated and removed.

We will obtain single fields centered on the dustiest star-forming regions where PAH emission was previously detected with Spitzer. We will use the 4-point-sets dithers optimized for extended sources with MIRI, with starting-set=5 and number of sets = 1 (in the default positive direction) so that the pattern starts in the center of the array, which is in turned centered on the star-forming region. For NIRCam, we will use the INTRAMODULEX pattern with 4 dithers to maximize coverage and efficiency.

Exposure times were computed to reach a S/N of 1.5 per pixel for MIRI and 0.5 per pixel for NIRCam. We will bin the observations to 1" pixels to reach a S/N of 15 at 10 pc scales. This will allow us to used band ratios to derive the resolved properties of PAHs with good statistical significance.

For the MIRI observations, we will use 100 groups per integration (no saturation issues). For NIRCam, we will use 5-10 groups per integration (no saturation issues).

The observations for IC 1613 are split in two visits (1 MIRI, 1 NIRCam). The observations for Sextans A, which have longer exposure times due to the fainter PAH emission, are split in 4 visits (3 MIRI visits, 1 NIRCam visit) to allow schedulability.

All observations are background limited, as shown by the significant (>5%) difference in S/N between the low and high background ETC calculations. Therefore, we have added the corresponding special requirement in all observations.