---
id: 2395
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/FS  NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Andrew Levan  Co-PIs: Stephen Smartt and Andrew Fruchter"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "25"
program_title: "A Comprehensive View of a Binary Neutron Star Merger"
type: "GO,  Disruptive ToO"
---
# 2395 - A Comprehensive View of a Binary Neutron Star Merger
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2395
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                                          | Observing Template                 | Science Target |
| :--------------------------------------------- | :--------------------------------- | :------------- |
| 7                                              | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy    | (1) GW1        |
| 14                                             | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy    | (1) GW1        |
| 13                                             | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy    | (1) GW1        |
| 15                                             | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy    | (1) GW1        |
| 8                                              | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy    | (1) GW1        |
| 16                                             | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy    | (1) GW1        |
| 23                                             | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy    | (1) GW1        |
| 11                                             | NIRCam Imaging                     | (1) GW1        |
| 17                                             | NIRCam Imaging                     | (1) GW1        |
| 18                                             | NIRCam Imaging                     | (1) GW1        |
| 19                                             | NIRCam Imaging                     | (1) GW1        |
| 20                                             | NIRCam Imaging                     | (1) GW1        |
| 21                                             | NIRCam Imaging                     | (1) GW1        |
| 22                                             | NIRCam Imaging                     | (1) GW1        |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose a comprehensive public program targetting the electromagnetic counterpart to a gravitational wave source. The counterpart - a kilonova - is created by rapid neutron capture (the r-process) in the neutron-rich ejecta from the merger of two neutron stars, or a neutron star and a black hole. The one kilonova studied in detail to date confirms predictions that they are faint, red and fast-evolving. The unique combination of depth and wavelength coverage from JWST will enable the next pivotal breakthroughs in their study. We will map the bolometric luminosity to determine the quantity of heavy elements produced. Their synthesis sites will be isolated by mapping the relative strengths of blue emission (from lighter elements) and red emission (from heavy elements). Late time photometry can detect the presence of any long-lived radioisotopes from the heaviest elements. Our spectroscopic observations will go further, enabling us to decompose the various kilonova components, and search for individual elements either in the early or late phases of the KN. Finally, the deep observations will provide a unique route to determining the distance to the host galaxy, enhancing the accuracy of the gravitational wave derived Hubble constant, and will provide a high-resolution view of the merger environments. Together these observations will create significant new knowledge about the origin of the heaviest elements known in nature, including those of great value (e.g. gold) and some which are vital to life on Earth (e.g. iodine, thorium). To enhance community value, we propose a public programme and will make reduced products available shortly after the observations.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose a series of imaging and spectroscopic observations of a kilonova associated with a gravitational wave source. We will start observations within 3-5 days of the detection, triggering after a counterpart has been found. We will obtain 6 epochs of spectroscopy and 6 epochs of imaging, spaced over the weeks and months following the merger. A full description of the strategy and justification is provided in the technical description. Here we outline the observations (but not their motivation).

Spectroscopy will be taken with NIRSpec. Depending on the source brightness (and distance, since this informs predictions of the brightness) we will use either the mid-resolution grating or the prism. Spectroscopic observations will take approximately 3 hours (prism) or 4 hours (grating). Since the source is evolving in brightness we will use WATA acquisition, and a blind offset star (clearly this cannot be specified prior to the trigger time). Imaging observations will begin at approximately day 12 and will map the evolution as the source evolves over the coming months. We will use F070W, F150W, F277W and F444W to map the evolution across the full spectral energy distribution. Each epoch will obtain approximately 2000s of on source time per filter (and a total of 9023s) for the full OB. A final epoch of imaging will be required for host subtraction, and may be required for spectroscopy. Because a KN may be discovered at distances from 20-200+ Mpc and may have significant intrinsic variability we ask for some flexibility, although we have tailored our approach such that our scientific goals can be reached, even for a faint KN at a large distance. A brighter system will simply provide more diagnostic power. We note that there are some efficiency improvements over what appears in the APT, and we have taken these into account in our custom allocation request. In particular, the slew overhead of 1800s per observation is not required when our observations will be in NIRSpec and NIRCAM and will run concurrently. This saves significantly on epochs where we obtain both imaging and spectroscopy.

A full description of instrument set-up, limiting magnitudes etc can be found in the technical case.