---
id: 2402
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Jean Turner"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "2.5"
program_title: "Opening Pandora's Box: Revealing the Hidden Content of a Forming Super Star Cluster"
type: "GO"
---
# 2402 - Opening Pandora's Box: Revealing the Hidden Content of a Forming Super Star Cluster
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2402
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                     | Observing Template                  | Science Target             |
| :------------------------ | :---------------------------------- | :------------------------- |
| MRS on NGC-5253           | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) NGC-5253               |
| Background for NGC-5253   | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) NGC5253-BACKGROUND     |

## ABSTRACT

We propose to observe the full 5-28 micron spectrum of the giant HII region in NGC 5253. The dominant infrared cluster in this galaxy is among the most luminous star-forming regions in the local universe. Consistent with a 10^9 Lsun IR luminosity, low resolution spectra from ISO and Spitzer reveal high excitation from intense and hard radiation fields within the HII region. But these large aperture IR observations could not isolate the HII region core from other nearby clusters. JWST can see through the more than 15 magnitudes of visual extinction to resolve the 3-pc radius IR nebula from more extended nebulosity. Thus the mid-IR spectrum of the giant HII region surrounding the forming super star cluster (SSC) can be separated from lower excitation gas associated with older clusters. The final spectrum will provide a valuable template for the spectrum of a forming SSC for applications at higher redshifts. The line strengths computed from these spectra will be combined with optical and submillimeter data, and analyzed with grids of models of varying radiation field intensity and hardness and with different distributions of gas and dust.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to use the MRS on MIRI to obtain the full mid-IR spectrum of the heavily obscured giant star-forming region in the local dwarf galaxy, NGC 5253. All four channels of the MRS will be used to obtain the full 4.9-28.8 micron spectrum at the highest spectral resolution in a source with bright mid-IR lines but also a strong continuum. The core of the HII region is less than an arcsecond in size: the spatial resolution of JWST is essential to separate the spectrum of this HII region from separate extended nebulosity in the galaxy. Given that there is extended nebular emission of interest, the observations require a dedicated background observation rather than nodding on the array. Since most of the 2-15 Jy continuum is concentrated in a 0.2" region, saturation issues even with the smallest subarray mean that the MIRI Imager will not be used for simultaneous observations.