---
id: 2416
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Adam McKay"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "26.3"
program_title: "Measuring Volatile Production in Active Centaurs with JWST NIRSpec"
type: "GO"
---
# 2416 - Measuring Volatile Production in Active Centaurs with JWST NIRSpec
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2416
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                  | Observing Template       | Science Target        |
| :--------------------- | :----------------------- | :-------------------- |
| 29P/SW1                | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) 29P               |
| 29P/SW1 Background     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (2) 29P-OFFSET        |
| 39P/Oterma             | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (3) 39P               |
| 39P/Oterma Background  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (4) 39P-OFFSET        |
| C/2004 A1 (LONEOS)     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (5) LONEOS            |
| C/2004 A1 (LONEOS) Background | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (6) LONEOS-OFFSET     |
| C/2008 CL94 (Lemmon)   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (7) LEMMON            |
| C/2008 CL94 (Lemmon) Background | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (8) LEMMON-OFFSET     |
| C/2014 OG392 (PanSTARRS) | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (9) PANSTARRS         |
| C/2014 OG392 (PanSTARRS) Background | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (10) PANSTARRS-OFFSET |
| C/2019 LD2 (ATLAS)     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (11) LD2ATLAS         |
| C/2019 LD2 (ATLAS) Background | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (12) LD2ATLAS-OFFSET  |

## ABSTRACT

Centaurs are small bodies orbiting between the orbits of Jupiter and Neptune. These objects are transitioning from orbits in the Scattered Disk beyond Neptune to those of Jupiter Family Comets that enter the terrestrial planet region. Cometary activity has been observed in some of Centaurs, indicating the presence of volatiles. While studies of the dust comae surrounding active Centaurs have been performed, direct observations of the volatiles responsible for the activity are much more sparse. CO has been detected in a few active Centaurs, while CO2 has not been detected (mostly due to difficulties observing CO2 from ground-based facilities) and H2O has only been detected in one Centaur (29P). An inventory of H2O, CO2, and CO in active Centaurs is vital to understanding their composition and activity. We propose to use JWST NIRSpec to obtain observations of H2O, CO2, and CO in a sample of active Centaurs. We will also perform sensitive searches for water ice absorption in the coma. JWST NIRSpec is uniquely suited for this study because a) it has unsurpassed sensitivity at IR wavelengths, allowing for orders of magnitude better sensitivity than previous searches for these molecules, and b) JWST's space-borne nature allows it to observe the fundamental bands of H2O and CO2, which cannot be observed from the ground due to severe telluric absorption.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose observations with the NIRSpec IFU prism mode to measure production rates of H2O, CO2, and CO in a sample of active Centaurs, as well as search for water ice absorption in the coma. All observations have dedicated background observations. The science and background observations are sequenced together and non-interruptable to ensure the most accurate measure of the background.