---
id: 2424
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Anne Jaskot"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "24.5"
program_title: "Revealing the Ionizing Spectrum of Low-Metallicity Galaxies with MIRI"
type: "GO"
---
# 2424 - Revealing the Ionizing Spectrum of Low-Metallicity Galaxies with MIRI
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2424
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label        | Observing Template              | Science Target          |
| :----------- | :------------------------------ | :---------------------- |
| J1608        | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) J160810+352809      |
| WOPR 01      | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) J160810+352809      |
| J1608 Bkg    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) J1608-BACKGROUND    |
| WOPR 02      | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) J1608-BACKGROUND    |
| J1509        | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) J150934+373146      |
| J1509 Bkg    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) J1509-BACKGROUND    |
| J1044        | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (5) J104458+035313      |
| J1044 Bkg    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (6) J1044-BACKGROUND    |
| SB82         | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (7) SB82                |
| SB82 Bkg     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (8) SB82-BACKGROUND     |
| J1224        | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (9) J122437+372437      |
| J1224 Bkg    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (10) J1224-BACKGROUND   |
| J1202        | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (11) J120202+541551     |
| J1202 Bkg    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (12) J1202-BACKGROUND   |

---

## ABSTRACT

The ionizing spectral energy distributions (SEDs) of young stellar populations are a key ingredient in studies of galactic star formation histories, feedback, and nebular emission. While observations indicate that galaxies' ionizing spectra become significantly harder at low metallicity, current stellar population models struggle to reproduce the observed high-ionization emission lines. Observationally, constraining the ionizing spectral shape with UV and optical emission lines is difficult, given uncertainties due to dust extinction, underlying stellar spectral features, relative abundances, and radiative transfer effects.

Here, we propose MIRI MRS spectroscopy to measure a suite of nebular emission lines with ionization potentials of 22-97 eV and constrain the ionizing spectral shape of six low-metallicity galaxies. The sample galaxies have existing HST UV spectra to constrain the non-ionizing spectrum and span a range of metallicities and ionization conditions. By comparing the MIR spectra with photoionization models, we will systematically test ionizing SED models and different proposed sources of hard ionizing photons. Our results will serve as new observational constraints that will be used to improve low-metallicity SED models. In addition, with spatially resolved maps of [Ne III], [SIV], and [S III] lines, we will compare the ionization structure of different star-forming knots and trace the propagation and escape of ionizing radiation. These MIRI observations will provide new insights into stellar populations, stellar evolution, and ionizing spectra at low metallicity.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose JWST/MIRI MRS observations of six low-redshift, low-metallicity galaxies. We plan to cover the full MIR spectrum and therefore request observations in each of the three MIRI wavelength range settings. Since our sources are extended, we adopt the extended source four-point dither pattern. We use the minimum number of integrations, limiting each integration to no more than ~2000 seconds. We have chosen to enable the recommended simultaneous MIRI imaging, using the F1130W filter. We reduce the number of groupsand use the BRIGHTSKY subarray in one case to avoid saturating any stars within 140 arcsec of our target.

Given the spatial extent of our targets, we require dedicated background exposures in a non-interruptible sequence for the same exposure time as our sources. We choose background regions that have no targets within the MRS field-of-view in either the SDSS or WISE surveys. We require that the edge of the Channel 4 field-of-view be > 13 kpc away at our target's redshift during the background observation.