---
id: 2426
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/FS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Micaela Bagley  Co-PI: Sofia Rojas"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "18.1"
program_title: "Spectroscopic Confirmation and Characterization of Bright Galaxies at z~9"
type: "GO"
---
# 2426 - Spectroscopic Confirmation and Characterization of Bright Galaxies at z~9
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2426
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
## 1. OBSERVATIONS Table: Labels, Observing Templates, and Science Targets

| Observation ID | Label | Observing Template           | Science Target                |
| :------------- | :---- | :--------------------------- | :---------------------------- |
| 1              |       | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (1) PAR0953+5153-1777         |
| 2              |       | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (2) PAR0953+5153-1655         |
| 3              |       | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (3) PAR0956+2847-169          |
| 4              |       | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (4) PAR0956+2847-1130         |
| 6              |       | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (6) PAR2139+0241-1709         |
| 7              |       | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (5) PAR0750+2917-1736         |
| 8              |       | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (7) PAR335+13-251             |
| 10             |       | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (8) PAR0456-2203-473          |
| 15             |       | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (8) PAR0456-2203-473          |
| 11             |       | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (9) PAR2346-0021-164          |
| 13             |       | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (20) BORG-0853+0309           |
| 14             |       | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (18) PAR0956-0450-684-OFFSET  |

*(Note: The 'Label' column in the original table was consistently empty.)*

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose a targeted 18.1-hour NIRSpec fixed slit prism program to spectroscopically confirm 11 of the brightest known z=9-10 galaxy candidates. This sample capitalizes on the uncorrelated nature of pure parallel observations to overcome cosmic variance and leverages a full multi-wavelength selection process to minimize contamination without sacrificing completeness. The abundance of bright galaxies at z>8 can provide key constraints on models, as the predicted abundance varies greatly when different physical prescriptions for gas cooling and star formation are implemented. These galaxies likely also reside in overdensities, potentially representing some of the earliest sites of cosmic reionization. However, these candidate galaxies require spectroscopic confirmation to prove their validity, and pave the way for deeper Cycle 2 exploration. Our observations will provide clear redshift confirmation via detection of the Lyman break, as well as measurements of the O32 line ratio, enabling the characterization of the ionizing power of these galaxies early in the epoch of reionization.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will observe 11 bright (m_H < 26.5) z~9-10 galaxies with NIRSpec fixed slit spectroscopy, aiming to achieve a signal-to-noise of ~3/pixel in the continuum to allow for a significant detection of the Lyman spectral break. (We note that our observations will also be sensitive to emission lines such as [OII], Hbeta, and [OIII].) We will use the S400A1, as we can achieve the desired sensitivity in this wider slit, thus reducing the risk of slit losses but with acceptable resolution for our goals. We will observe each target for ~25 minutes, using an exposure specification of 120 groups and 1 integration per exposure with the NRSRAPID readout mode, recommended by JDox. We will use 2 nods along the slit and perform both spatial and spectral sub-pixel dithers. With these specifications, we will be able to cleanly background-subtract the spectra, remove detector effects, and improve the sub-pixel sampling. This results in 8 exposures per target, for a total integration time of 1508s.

Six of our targets are bright enough for direct acquisition with WATA, using NRSRAPIDD6 and FULL array readout. For each of the remaining five targets, we have identified a nearby star with 20 < m_H < 24 and coordinates from the same astrometric catalog as our targets. For the brighter stars, we use SUB2048 and either NRSRAPID or NRSRAPIDD6 as necessary to avoid saturation.

The total requested program time is 18.13 hours, including all overheads estimated by APT.