---
id: 2433
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Jay Howk"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "16.1"
program_title: "Imaging the Disk-halo Boundary Layer: PAH Emission as a Probe of the Energetics and Physics of Interstellar Thick Disks"
type: "GO"
---
# 2433 - Imaging the Disk-halo Boundary Layer: PAH Emission as a Probe of the Energetics and Physics of Interstellar Thick Disks
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2433
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :------------------------------ | :----------------- | :----------------- |
| 1 | MIRI Imaging | (1) NGC-891 |
| 2 - Observation 1 Background Tile | MIRI Imaging | (2) NGC-891-INSERT |

---

## ABSTRACT

Most nearby spiral galaxies show thick disks of interstellar gases supported and fed by the feedback from star formation. This material serves as the interface between the disk and the circumgalactic medium; it regulates the flows between the two, dictating the time and length scales for the circulation of baryons and metals within a galaxy. Interstellar thick disks are complex, showing the full range of phases as the underlying thin disks; this includes a cold neutral/molecular medium from which thick disk stars are actively formed. We propose to take advantage of the incredible leaps in resolution and sensitivity offered by JWST to map the PAH emission from the interstellar thick disk of the canonical edge-on spiral galaxy NGC 891, the the local galaxy with the best-studied thick disk over all phases. Our proposed images probe the interstellar thick disk to unprecedented heights, probing the distribution of metal-bearing PAHs to the boundary between the galaxy and its circumgalactic medium. With our proposed images we will 1) characterize the spatial distribution of PAH emission, including decomposing the emission associated with the well-known diffuse ionized gas from the other phases; 2) identify thick disk filaments fed directly by disk star forming regions to determine the stellar energy required to create outflows from the disk; and 3) obtain a complete census of star formation and masses of young stellar clusters in the thick disk. Together these goals will help paint a complete picture of the physics at work in shaping and maintaining the physical and phase structure of the thick disk interstellar medium.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will obtain MIRI images of NGC 891 in the F770W filter to observe the 7.7 µm PAH band. The F770W filter samples both PAH and stellar emission. We will create a stellar continuum image using a scaled F560W image, subtracting it from the F770W data to create a PAH-only image (McCormick et al. 2013).

Our F770W observations assume a 2-point dither at each mosaic position, with (50 groups) x (6 integrations) at each dither step. We limit the number of groups to 50 in order to avoid saturating the emission from the central disk. The F560W have a lower exposure (25 groups) x (3 integrations), sufficient to detect individual K supergiants at the distance of NGC 891, though they will be used to detect the integrated (unresolved) stellar light (fainter in F770W than in F560W) underlying the PAH emission. We include one offset background image at higher z-height than our prime mosaic to facilitate background subtraction. This field extends the vertical coverage to z~11 kpc from the midplane of NGC 891.

We have constrained the PA in v3 coordinates to 80 – 140 to observe a large vertical extent over a reasonable radial range and give an overlapping background field at large enough z-height. The background pointing is a slightly more constrained PA requirement at 90 – 130. There are no problems with scheduling.