---
id: 2437
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Stefan Pelletier  Co-PIs: Bjorn Benneke and Romain Allart"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 13.1
program_title: "Diamonds are Forever: Probing the Carbon Budget and Formation History of the Ultra-Puffy Hot Jupiter WASP-127b"
type: "GO"
---
# 2437 - Diamonds are Forever: Probing the Carbon Budget and Formation History of the Ultra-Puffy Hot Jupiter WASP-127b
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2437
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                  | Observing Template                 | Science Target |
| :--------------------- | :--------------------------------- | :------------- |
| WASP-127b - G379H      | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series  | (1) WASP-127B  |

## ABSTRACT

    Hot Jupiters present an unprecedented opportunity to answer long-standing question regarding the formation processes of giant planets by measuring the carbon-to-oxygen ratio of their atmospheres. Precisely measuring a planet's C/O ratio however, requires simultaneously measuring the abundance of all major carbon- and oxygen-bearing species present in its atmosphere, which remains an extremely challenging task with currently available instrumentation. WASP-127b currently harbours both the strongest known water and carbon absorption features of any exoplanet to date as measured from HST and Spitzer. Unfortunately, those observations cannot distinguish between a CO2-rich low C/O case, or a CO-rich high C/O case. Both of these scenarios would have drastically different implications not only regarding WASP-127b's atmospheric chemistry, but also in terms of what mechanisms are at play during giant planet formation. We propose to observe a single transit of the ultra-puffy hot Jupiter WASP-127b using NIRSpec BOTS to determine what is the dominant carbon species of its atmosphere. Especially when combined with already scheduled GTO NIRISS SOSS transit observations that will exquisitely constrain the H2O abundance, the inferred precise C/O ratio will likely be able to pinpoint not only where in the protoplanetary disk WASP-127b formed, but also whether the metallic content of its envelope came from enriched gas due to pebble drift or rather from planetesimal accretion. Distinguishing between these scenarios will provide invaluable information regarding the formation process not only of the intriguing population of hot Jupiters, but also giant planets in general.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

    Observations are to be taken as a continuous time series when the targeted exoplanet (WASP-127b) transits in front of its host star. Baseline calibration observations are needed before and after the transit. Observational must be taken during the phase range provided.