---
id: 2439
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Michael McDonald"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "14.2"
program_title: "Resolving the Cooling Flow at the Center of the Phoenix Cluster"
type: "GO"
---
# 2439 - Resolving the Cooling Flow at the Center of the Phoenix Cluster
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2439
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label          | Observing Template                  | Science Target            |
| :------------- | :---------------------------------- | :------------------------ |
| OnBCG-ChABC    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) PHOENIX-CLUSTER-BCG |
| OffBCG-ChABC   | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) PHOENIX-CLUSTER-BG  |

## ABSTRACT

The centers of galaxy clusters represent an ideal laboratory to study black hole feeding and feedback. In nearly every cluster that has been observed, cooling of the intracluster medium (ICM) appears to be well-regulated by a mechanically-efficient, radio-loud AGN within the central giant elliptical galaxy. This mechanical power appears to offset cooling of the ICM over long (~10 Gyr) timescales, allowing only ~1% of the hot ICM to cool to low enough temperatures to form stars and fuel the AGN. This precise balance prevents the overcooling of the ICM, keeps central cluster galaxies red and dead, and keeps central AGN in a low (mechanically-efficient) accretion state. The Phoenix cluster (z=0.597) represents an exception to this paradigm, with a starburst (~800 Msun/yr) central galaxy and a rapidly-accreting central quasar. This system appears to be fulfilling many of the early “cooling flow” predictions, with evidence from X-ray spectroscopy that the hot (>10^7K) gas in the core is cooling at nearly the maximal rate. We propose MIRI IFU spectroscopy to image the core of this unique cluster. In particular, we will utilize the NeVI emission line, which probes gas at 300,000K, to map out the intermediate temperature gas both spatially and kinematically, and determine whether a cooling flow is indeed fueling the observed starburst. The full mid-IR spectrum will allow new insights into the cooling flow, ICM turbulence, the central QSO, and the cold gas reservoir.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The goal of this program is to observe the core of the Phoenix cluster with the MIRI MRS IFU. This requires a single pointing of the IFU, with three separate observations to utilize the three gratings. We opt for a deep exposure in the "Short (A)" grating, and shallow exposures in the B,C gratings. The former allows the detection of the very faint NeVI line (rest frame 7.6um redshifted to 12.14um) against the bright continuum. The other two setups will be observed at sufficient depth to achieve S/N>5 in all spectral elements. Our source is extended, so we will perform small dithers to optimize the field-of-view. We split the 'A" grating observation into two visits in order to keep the data volume per visit under the 58GB limit. Wherever possible, we optimize the observing program for the Ch3-A setup, where we require maximal S/N and coverage.