---
id: 2452
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: JD Smith"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "7"
program_title: "The Vanishing Act: PAHs and Heavy Element Abundance in M101"
type: "GO"
---
# 2452 - The Vanishing Act: PAHs and Heavy Element Abundance in M101
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2452
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label   | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :------ | :----------------- | :------------- |
| NIRCAM  | NIRCam Imaging     | (2) MESSIER-101 |

## ABSTRACT

One of Spitzer's hallmark extragalactic discoveries was the sensitive dependence of PAH emission on metallicity. PAHs seem simply to vanish in galaxies below approximately one-quarter of the solar abundance. Understanding the physical origin of this unexpected phenomenon is urgent, and will have major implications for all upcoming JWST proposals using the mid-IR PAH bands to trace star formation at high redshift.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We outline a modest imaging-only program to map the 3.3µm PAH feature along a radial strip in the galaxy M101, beyond 1/5th solar metallicity. M101 is the ideal laboratory for this simple experiment. Thanks to impressively deep 8m-class "auroral-line" spectroscopy from the CHAOS program, M101's steep radial abundance gradient is the most accurately known of any galaxy in the Universe. Additionally, ~50 hours of ultra-deep Spitzer/IRS mapping spectroscopy probe a strip extending 20kpc from its center. Spitzer provided no access to the shortest and highest excitation 3.3µm PAH feature. This band provides a crucial missing piece of the puzzle since it is highly diagnostic of the very smallest PAH grains which are most likely to be affected by changes in low-metallicity environments. NIRCAM's high surface brightness sensitivity and perfectly matched filter set enable a deep measurement of 3.3µm PAH emission at ~4pc resolution, simultaneously tracing signs of mechanical heating with H_2 2.12µm narrowband imaging. Armed with new models for PAH band variations driven by grain destruction, inhibited formation, and changes in the starlight spectrum, we can definitively answer: how & why do PAH grains respond so sensitively to the varying heavy metal content of galaxies?

**MOSAIC & CONSTRAINTS:**
To efficiently cover pre-existing ultra-deep Spitzer/IRS strip mapping of M101, we allocate a simple 2 step mosaic, constraining NIRCAM roll angles to align the mosiac pattern with the strip position angle. This leaves approximately a one month long scheduling window.

**FILTERS:**
We utilize 3 red (F300M, F335M, F360M) and 2 blue (F212N, F200W) to provide deep continuum-subtracted imaging of the PAH 3.3um band and H2 1-0 S(1) 2.12 emission line.

**READOUT:**
To keep data rate below the maximum, we employ SHALLOW2 NIRCAM readout ramps, achieving a final data rate near 0.7MB/s for this short 7hr program. We allocate 3 primary and 2 sub-pixel dithers in the 3TIGHT pattern. Together with a 57% mosaic overlap, this provides excellent uniformity of coverage across the full strip and excellent point-spread function recovery.

**EXPOSURE:**
Ramp details and exposure times were validated using the ETC with surface brightness scaled from the pre-existing 11.3um Spitzer PAH band intensity and both "diffuse" and "structured" extraction apertures. Using 5 group readout ramps with our 6 dither positions leads to high quality detections meeting the scientific requirements.