---
id: 2454
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Peter Gao"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 14.9
program_title: "Unveiling the Nature of the Impossible Planets"
type: "GO"
---
# 2454 - Unveiling the Nature of the Impossible Planets
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2454
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                      | Observing Template               | Science Target   |
| :------------------------- | :------------------------------- | :--------------- |
| NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) KEPLER-51    |

## ABSTRACT

Super-puffs are a distinct class of low mass, large radii planets that challenge models of planet formation and evolution. Their inferred large gas mass fractions suggest that they formed at large semi-major axes, beyond the water iceline, and migrated to their current locations among the similar-mass but much more abundant sub-Neptunes. Their large gas mass fractions also make super-puffs vulnerable to catastrophic atmospheric loss, which makes their continued existence a mystery. A possible solution to the problems faced by super-puffs is that they are enshrouded in high altitude haze layers that make them look bigger than they would look if they had clear atmospheres. Hubble Space Telescope observations of three super-puffs lend credence to this hypothesis, as they showed featureless transmission spectra. We propose to observe the 0.6-5.3 micron transmission spectrum of the super-puff Kepler-51b using NIRSpec PRISM to test the high altitude haze hypothesis and also to search for spectral signatures of diagnostic gases and haze composition. We will also be able to test alternate hypotheses for super-puffs' large radii and featureless NIR transmission spectra, including high atmospheric metallicity coupled with a high internal heat flux and the existence of planetary rings. Detection of any haze spectral features will constrain their composition and help guide laboratory haze experiments. Measurements of gas spectral features will for the first time give us information on super-puffs' atmospheric composition, which will shed light on whether they have suffered atmospheric loss and whether they migrated from beyond the water iceline.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will observe Kepler-51b in transit with NIRSpec prism with clear filter and S1600S1 fixed slit. The total exposure time of 11.33 hours will give us equal in and out of the transit coverage. The phase constraint is between 7 hours and 6 hours before the mid-transit to ensure any potential detector systematics at the beginning of the observation will not affect the transit. We choose 17 groups per integration, as computed by the JWST Exposure Time Calculator and PandExo and use the SUB512 subarray.

Kepler-51 itself is suitable for target acquisition and we will use F110W filter with 0.08 seconds total exposure time for a SNR of ~51.

The long visibility window over about 7 months ensures that Kepler-51 has 4 transit opportunities to schedule in Cycle 1.