---
id: 2457
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Andrey Vayner"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "20.9"
program_title: "Extreme Quasar Feedback at the Peak of the Galaxy Formation Epoch"
type: "GO"
---
# 2457 - Extreme Quasar Feedback at the Peak of the Galaxy Formation Epoch
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2457
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
|---|---|---|
| | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) SDSS-J221524.00-005643.8 |
| | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (2) SDSS-J083200.20+161500.3 |
| | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (2) SDSS-J083200.20+161500.3 |
| | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (3) SDSS-J083448.48+015921.1 |
| | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (4) SDSS-J123241.73+091209.3 |
| | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (4) SDSS-J123241.73+091209.3 |
| | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (5) SDSS-J121704.70+023417.1 |

## ABSTRACT

Feedback from accreting supermassive black holes is now a standard ingredient in galaxy formation models. It may be necessary for recreating the steep high-mass end of the stellar mass function and for establishing the black-hole/bulge correlations. Powerful ionized gas winds are a ubiquitous feature in luminous obscured z = 0.5 quasars. We now propose to explore quasar outflows at the peak epoch of galaxy formation and quasar activity, when quasar winds must have made the strongest impact on galaxy formation. We request NIRSpec integral field spectroscopy observations of 5 near-Eddington red quasars at z~2.5 with extreme (>> 1000 km/s) outflow activity, well beyond that seen at low redshifts. We will observe Hbeta+[OIII] and Ha+[NII]+[SII] in a single configuration per target at an 0.8 kpc resolution. We will measure the energetics of the outflows to gauge their driving mechanism and whether they have the necessary coupling efficiency in establishing the local correlation between the mass of the black-hole/bulge. We will perform resolved ionization diagnostics to isolate regions within each host galaxy photoionized by the quasar, shocks from the outflows, and recent star formation. We will map the location of powerful outflows and compare them to recent star formation locations to see if regions of powerful outflows coincide with low star formation regions. With their unprecedented [OIII] kinematics, red quasars may be the signposts of the extreme "blow-out" phase of quasar feedback that is expected to affect star formation significantly. NIRSpec-IFU observations will allow us to test this hypothesis definitively.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will be observing five high redshift quasars using the NIRSpec IFU. The main goal is to spatially resolve multiple nebular emission lines (e.g., H-beta, [OIII], H-alpha) redshifted into the near-infrared.

The following are the observing mode per object:

NIRSpec IFU with G235H/F170LP. 10-point small cycling dither pattern. Readout mode of NRSIRS2RAPID with 50 groups and 1 integration per dither position. WATA target acquisition using the quasars with NRSRAPIDD6 readout mode with 3 groups for a total acquisition time of 14.452 seconds in the F110W filter. Total science exposure per target: 7440.334 seconds.