---
id: 2473
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Loic Albert  Co-PI: Michael Meyer"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "38.8"
program_title: "Multiplicity Survey of 20 Y Dwarfs with NIRCam Kernel Phase Interferometry"
type: "GO"
---
# 2473 - Multiplicity Survey of 20 Y Dwarfs with NIRCam Kernel Phase Interferometry
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2473
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label      | Observing Template | Science Target     |
| :--------- | :----------------- | :----------------- |
| WISE-0304  | NIRCam Imaging     | (52) WISE-0304-27  |
| WISE-0336  | NIRCam Imaging     | (53) WISE-0336-01  |
| WISE-0359  | NIRCam Imaging     | (4) WISE-0359-54   |
| WISE-0410  | NIRCam Imaging     | (5) WISE-0410+15   |
| WISE-0535  | NIRCam Imaging     | (6) WISE-0535-75   |
| WISE-0647  | NIRCam Imaging     | (7) WISE-0647-62   |
| WISE-0713  | NIRCam Imaging     | (8) WISE-0713-29   |
| WISE-0734  | NIRCam Imaging     | (9) WISE-0734-71   |
| WISE-0825  | NIRCam Imaging     | (10) WISE-0825+28  |
| WISE-0830  | NIRCam Imaging     | (54) WISE-0830+28  |
| WISE-1141  | NIRCam Imaging     | (12) WISE-1141-33  |
| WISE-1206  | NIRCam Imaging     | (13) WISE-1206+84  |
| WISE-1405  | NIRCam Imaging     | (15) WISE-1405+55  |
| WISE-1446  | NIRCam Imaging     | (55) WISE-1446-23  |
| WISE-1541  | NIRCam Imaging     | (17) WISE-1541-22  |
| WISE-1639  | NIRCam Imaging     | (18) WISE-1639-68  |
| WISE-1738  | NIRCam Imaging     | (19) WISE-1738+27  |
| WISE-1738  | NIRCam Imaging     | (19) WISE-1738+27  |
| WISE-2056  | NIRCam Imaging     | (21) WISE-2056+14  |
| WISE-2220  | NIRCam Imaging     | (23) WISE-2220-36  |
| WISE-2354  | NIRCam Imaging     | (24) WISE-2354+02  |

---

## ABSTRACT

The WISE infrared survey uncovered the coolest sub-stellar objects, brown dwarfs of type "Y", and a precious set of ~25 Y-dwarfs have been spectroscopically confirmed to date. These brown dwarfs personify the extremes and are the coolest (<500 K), least massive (5-30 MJup) and, surprisingly, most abundant sub-stellar objects (Kirkpatrick et al. 2019). But Y dwarfs are extremely hard to study from the ground, i.e. they have limited light output below 4 microns and the Earth's atmosphere is opaque near the peak of their spectral energy distribution at 5 microns. Are Y dwarfs single or can they support companions? Is their a minimum companion mass? Can giant planets be formed around Y dwarfs? We propose to unleash JWST's potential by determining the multiplicity rate for a sample of 20 Y-dwarfs with sub Jupiter-mass sensitivity. Using a powerful technique for analyzing NIRCam images, Kernel phase interferometry, we will search for companions with large magnitude differences at sub-AU resolution. We will measure the Y-dwarfs companion-to-host mass ratio distribution, q, to unprecedented low values (q<0.1), constrain the orbital distribution of companions down to ~0.5 AU and be sensitive to potential giant planets. We expect an average yield of 3 companions. This survey could discover an object cooler than 250 K, thereby bridging the gap between the coldest known Y dwarf, WISE 0855 (250 K) and Jupiter (130 K). The determination of dynamical masses, vital for advancing our knowledge of Y dwarfs, will be possible within JWST's lifetime. The goals of our observational program can only be achieved with JWST because of its exquisite sensitivity at 5 microns.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will prefrom full frame imaging with NIRCam in the F480M and F150W filters with a 5-point small-grid-dither pattern. We aim for 50% full well depth in each integration and integrate to accumulate 1e+7 photo-electrons per target in the F480M filter. We will use the Kernel phase interferometry analysis method. Our survey contains 20 targets, to be observed in 5 groups of 4 such that singles can be used as self calibrator stars. Each group of 4 targets needs to be observed within 3 days to minimize OTE wavefront drift. The F150W observations will provide color information to reject background sources.