---
id: 2478
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Daniel Stark"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "10"
program_title: "Spectroscopy of Dwarf Galaxies in the Reionization Era: Ionizing Sources and Gas Conditions at Very Low Metallicity"
type: "GO"
---
# 2478 - Spectroscopy of Dwarf Galaxies in the Reionization Era: Ionizing Sources and Gas Conditions at Very Low Metallicity
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2478
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label               | Observing Template               | Science Target             |
| :------------------ | :------------------------------- | :------------------------- |
| rxcj2248-update     | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (3) RXCJ2248-UPDATED       |
| rxcj2248-update51   | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (5) RXCJ2248-FINAL-obs51   |
| a1703-update        | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (4) A1703-FINAL            |

---

## ABSTRACT

The launch of JWST opens the door for our first window on the stars and gas in the galaxies of the reionization era. The typical galaxies in this early period are low mass star forming systems. The planned Cycle 1 NIRSpec surveys will build large statistical samples of these galaxies, but because of their faintness (H=27-29) the spectra will not yield useful insight into their stellar populations or gas conditions. Progress requires coupling the large statistical surveys with extremely deep spectra of low mass galaxies. Here we propose to accomplish this goal via NIRSpec MSA observations of a sample of reionization-era dwarf galaxies that are highly magnified by gravitational lensing. Our primary targets include two z>6 galaxies already known to power strong CIV emission, potentially pointing to a population of extremely low metallicity and very massive stars or the common presence of AGN in dwarf z>6 galaxies. Such intense high ionization nebular emission is unprecedented locally but appears to be a typical feature in the low mass population at these early epochs. The proposed rest-UV to optical spectra will reveal what the high ionization nebular lines are telling us about the ionizing sources and gas conditions in early low mass galaxies. We will simultaneously observe a large number of reionization-era galaxies in the cluster fields, including up to 7 of the brightest (H=23.8-25.6) dwarf galaxies known at these redshifts. The proposed spectra will characterize the metallicity, outflows, and ionizing sources in a representative range of low mass z>6 galaxies, providing our most detailed view of the galaxies which are typical in the reionization era.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose NIRSpec MSA observations of gravitationally lensed galaxies in two cluster fields, Abell 1703 and RXCJ2248-4431. Our primary targets are two galaxies in these fields with intense CIV emission at z=6.11 and z=7.05. We will simultaneously target a large number of fainter z>4 galaxies, including up to 8 of the brightest known gravitationally lensed galaxies at z>6. We will use NIRSpec in its medium resolution (R~1000) mode with the goal of ensuring that faint emission lines are not blended. Our goal is to characterize the strength of nebular emission lines from the rest-frame far UV (rest-frame 1500A) to rest-frame optical (rest-frame 6000A), requiring spectroscopy across 1 to 5 microns. We will be able to sample the relevant emission lines with two settings in the Abell 1703 field, using G140M/F100LP and G395M/F290LP. In RXCJ2248, we additionally require G235M/F170LP to ensure detection of [OII] in the z=6.11 primary target. Exposure times are set by the need to detect faint emission lines. We require an exposure time of 1.8 hours in G140M, delivering SNR>5 for OIII] and Si III]. In the redder gratings (G235M, G395M), we require an exposure time of 0.4 hr to detect the fainter lines ([OII], [OIII]4363). For the two fields, this results in 5.0 hrs of science time and 10.0 hrs of charged time.