---
id: 2487
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Stefano Facchini"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 4.6
program_title: "Detecting a Wide-Separation Gas Giant in AS 209"
type: "GO"
---
# 2487 - Detecting a Wide-Separation Gas Giant in AS 209
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2487
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label          | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :------------- | :----------------- | :------------- |
| AS 209 Roll 1  | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) EM-AS-209  |
| AS 209 Roll 2  | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) EM-AS-209  |

---

## ABSTRACT

High angular resolution observations of planet forming disks are revealing a wide variety of disk substructures, predominantly azimuthally symmetric rings and gaps. Such morphologies can be readily explained as the secular outcome of planet-disk interactions, suggesting a large population of unseen planets. This scenario is also supported by kinematic studies of protoplanetary disks, which are revealing substantial deviations from Keplerian rotation characteristic of embedded giant planets. To test this scenario, a direct detection of an embedded planet is needed. We propose to use NIRCam to detect such a planet in the disk around AS 209. The circumstellar material exhibits a clear gap in the 12CO emission at a large orbital separation from the central star (210 au; 1.7"), indicating an extremely deep gap in the disk gas surface density. This is consistent with a kinematic analysis showing a large pressure minimum at the center of the gap. The only mechanism known to produce such a feature in the gas surface density is a massive planet (~2 M_Jup) opening a gap. The large gap depth and width and lower inclination of the disk are highly favorable conditions for detecting an embedded planet as extinction from disk material along the line of sight will be minimized. Using 3D numerical simulations of a bespoke AS 209 model as the basis for simulated observations, we find we will reach a 5 sigma sensitivity of ~0.2 M_Jup at the location of the CO gap. As secondary goal, we will search for the planet generating the mm continuum rings at 0.8", where we obtain a 5 sigma sensitivity of~0.5-1 M_Jup, far surpassing any limits achievable with ground-based facilities.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will use NIRCam imaging to search for protoplanets that have been predicted to be present at a distance of 94 au (0.78") and 210 au (1.7") from the T Tauri star AS 209 (Zhang et al. 2018, Teague et al. 2018), with putative masses ranging from 0.2 to 2 Jupiter masses. We opt to use direct imaging rather than coronagraphic imaging because the inner planet is located near the inner working angle (0.57") of the smallest mask available for the long wavelength channel. At 0.8", the fractional transmission of the coronagraphic mask is only 0.6, greatly reducing sensitivity to the potential inner protoplanet.

AS 209 will be observed at NIRCam at two orientations separated by 10-14 degrees. The observations at the two orientations are linked in a non-interruptible sequence in order to minimize temporal PSF variations that would degrade the achievable contrasts. Roll subtraction is preferred over reference differential imaging with a separate PSF reference star because the circumstellar dust around AS 209 leads to an infrared excess that makes it difficult to find a star that would be suitable as a color match.

Each exposure will simultaneously observe with the F200W filter in the short wavelength channel and the F410M filter in the long wavelength channel. The F410M filter is selected for sensitivity to protoplanet emission, while the F200W filter will assist in rejecting background stars. We will use a subarray dither with 4 steps to help eliminate bad pixels. The fastest available readout pattern, RAPID, will be used to minimize saturation from the central star. Because of the cap of 200 integrations per exposure, we have subdivided the observations at each roll into separate exposures to achieve the required integration time. For faster readout times and lower data rates, we will also use the SUB160 subarray in Module B, which has a 5x5" FOV in the short wavelength channel and 10"x10" FOV in the long wavelength channel. This is adequate to cover the entirety of the region where protoplanets are expected to be found around AS 209.

The total exposure time of 4000 s per roll was chosen to maximize the sensitivity at the predicted site of the inner protoplanet at 0.8".