---
id: 2488
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: James Sikora"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 25
program_title: "Real Time Exoplanet Meteorology: Direct Measurement of Cloud Dynamics on the High-Eccentricity Hot Jupiter HD80606 b"
type: "GO"
---
# 2488 - Real Time Exoplanet Meteorology: Direct Measurement of Cloud Dynamics on the High-Eccentricity Hot Jupiter HD80606 b
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2488
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label      | Observing Template            | Science Target |
| :--------- | :---------------------------- | :------------- |
| HD80606b   | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) HD-80606   |

## ABSTRACT

Clouds are found on all Solar System planets with substantial atmospheres and are likely prevalent amongst most exoplanets as well. Although it is clear that clouds have a signifant impact on observations of exoplanetary atmospheres, our understanding of the fundamental cloud physics that dictate their compositions, particle sizes, and formation/dissipation timescales is relatively poor. We are proposing to use NIRSpec to observe the eclipse and periapse passage (~18 hrs) of HD80606 b, a hot Jupiter characterized by one of the highest eccentricities (e=0.93) of any known exoplanet, in order to study cloud dynamics. The planet's atmosphere undergoes dramatic temperature changes as it approaches periapsis (from <500 K to ~1400 K) and, as a result, the distribution of clouds is expected to vary rapidly due to evaporation/sublimation. The observations will place important constraints on cloud composition and condensation predictions as well as formation/dissipation timescales. The high brightness and extreme eccentricity of HD80606 b makes it an ideal laboratory for studying cloud dynamics and cloud properties as a function of incident radiation; the proposed observations have the potential to provide future atmospheric characterization studies with a powerful means by which "cloud-free" targets can be accurately identified.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This proposal involves using NIRSpec to observe the eclipse and periapse passage of the highly-eccentric hot Jupiter, HD80606b. The observations will use the G395H/F290LP grating-filter combination (2.87-5.18 microns) and will span a period of 18 hrs encompasing the eclipse and periapsis.