---
id: 2498
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Andrew Mann"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 8.9
program_title: "The Atmosphere of a 17Myr Old Hot Jupiter"
type: "GO"
---
# 2498 - The Atmosphere of a 17Myr Old Hot Jupiter
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2498
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label              | Observing Template                  | Science Target |
| :----------------- | :---------------------------------- | :------------- |
| HIP67522b_transit | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) HIP67522   |

## ABSTRACT

Transmission spectroscopy measurements of exoplanets have rewritten our understanding of the atmospheres of giant planets. However, existing observations provide little direct information about how these atmospheres form or evolve, as the overwhelming majority of well-characterized systems are old or have unknown ages. We propose for JWST/NIRSpec BOTS transmission spectra of the recently-discovered young hot Jupiter, HIP 67522 b (17 Myr). The proposed transmission spectra of this young planet can be compared to the plethora of existing HST, and planned JWST data available on its older analogues, providing more direct constraints on the origins of features seen in mature hot Jupiters. Since the planet retains its natal atmosphere, we can detect chemical patterns that reveal where the planet formed in the disk. Thus, HIP 67522 b offers an exceptional window into the formation and early evolution of planetary systems.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to take a single NIRSpec BOTS transit spectrum of the young hot-Jupiter HIP67522 b in the G395H/F290LP filter/disperser combination. The target is quite bright, so a nearby acquisition source is selected also. The transit is ~5 hours long, and we require 1 hour on each side for out-of-transit baseline estimation. We have selected the number of observation groups that maximises ths SNR without exceeding 50% of the full-well depth in any pixel, and also set the number of integrations to span the ~7 hour window.