---
id: 2507
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Andrew Vanderburg"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 3
program_title: "Thermal Emission from the First Planet Transiting a White Dwarf"
type: "GO"
---
# 2507 - Thermal Emission from the First Planet Transiting a White Dwarf
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2507
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :---- | :----------------- | :------------- |
| 1     | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) LP-141-14 |

---

## ABSTRACT

We request 1.5 hours of JWST observations to characterize a newly discovered planet around the white dwarf star WD 1856+534. The planet, called WD 1856 b, is about the size of Jupiter and has a mass less than 14 times that of Jupiter at 95% confidence. The planet orbits only 0.02 AU from the white dwarf, close enough that it must have originally orbited beyond 1 AU and migrated inwards to avoid being engulfed when the progenitor star evolved into a red giant. How the planet may have migrated is an active area of debate. We propose to use JWST/NIRSPEC to detect features in WD 1856 b's thermal emission spectrum. A detection will measure the planet's mass and probe the atmospheric composition, while a non-detection provides tight enough constraints on the planet's mass to rule out certain formation scenarios. Either way, JWST observations will help us understand this unique planet and the processes that shape planetary systems after the main sequence.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We request 1.66 hours of NIRSPEC bright object itme series observations with the G395 grism of the planet hosting star WD 1856+534. We will observe one transit of the planet WD 1856 b. Transit times are predicted using an updated ephemeris listed in the scientific justifiation and given as a special constraint.

The transit duration is only 8 minutes so we include an hour of out-of-transit baseline to reduce scheduling overheads. We also add 30 minutes of observations before the transit to let the detector settle into a steady state. We will acquire on the target star.