---
id: 2508
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/LRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Michael Zhang"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 13.2
program_title: "The First and Only Multi-wavelength Map of an Ultra-short-period Sub-Earth"
type: "GO"
---
# 2508 - The First and Only Multi-wavelength Map of an Ultra-short-period Sub-Earth
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2508
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label   | Observing Template                 | Science Target  |
| :------ | :--------------------------------- | :-------------- |
| Science | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) CD-45-5378  |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose to obtain a spectroscopic (5--12 um) phase curve of GJ 367b (TOI 731.01), an iron-rich 0.72 R_earth, 0.53 M_earth sub-Earth. GJ 367b is likely to forever remain the most observationally favorable sub-Earth outside the solar system, and the only one accessible to study by JWST. The phase curve will constrain the planet's dayside and nightside temperatures, phase offset, Bond albedo, and heat recirculation efficiency. A significant atmosphere would manifest as a diminished day-night temperature contrast, non-zero phase offset, and if there are clouds, high albedo. If there is significant eccentricity, the resulting tidal heating would be visible as anomalously high thermal emission. If there is no atmosphere, observations may be capable of distinguishing between different surface compositions. A metal-rich primary crust, for example, would be featureless and have higher brightness temperature, while an Earth-like granitoid tertiary crust (created by plate tectonics) will have lower brightness temperature, with an absorption feature at 8--10 um. Our observations would shed light on the properties and origins of iron-rich ultra-short-period planets, and serve as a pathfinder to future studies of the planet.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to observe GJ 367b for 10.5 hours, slightly longer than the 7.7 h orbital period of the planet. The observations start shortly before a secondary eclipse and end shortly after the following secondary eclipse, enabling us to capture two eclipses in one phase curve observation. We add 1 hour of extra padding at the beginning of the observation in case there is a ramp effect, as was seen with Spitzer/IRS (5--14 µm) in the first 0.5-1 hours of observation, due to a combination of telescope settling and charge trapping. The Spitzer ramp has proven difficult to model, and our proposed observations demand high precision, making it preferable to discard the first hour of data.