---
id: 2511
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU  MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Thomas Lai  Co-PIs: JD Smith, Adolf Witt, Aditya Togi, Brandon Hensley, and others*"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "4.2"
program_title: "How Do the Small Survive: PAH’s in Low Metallicity Starburst II Zw 40"
type: "GO"
---
# 2511 - How Do the Small Survive: PAH’s in Low Metallicity Starburst II Zw 40
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2511
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                     | Observing Template                | Science Target                  |
| :------------------------ | :-------------------------------- | :------------------------------ |
| II Zw 40 NIRSpec IFU      | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy          | (1) UGCA-116-NIRSPEC            |
| II Zw 40 MIRI Sci         | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) UGCA-116-MIRI-SCI           |
| II Zw 40 MIRI bkg         | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) UGCA-116-MIRI-BACKGROUND    |

## ABSTRACT

We propose to explore the properties of small dust grains in a prototypical blue compact dwarf II Zw 40 using a single pointing of the NIRSpec and MIRI IFUs. II Zw 40 has been found to exhibit strong 3.3 micron emission powered by the smallest polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons. This challenges the prevailing theory that small and fragile grains are to be suppressed in low-metallicity galaxies due to the penetrating UV radiation. We will directly investigate how PAH size distribution and ionization state connect with the hardness of the radiation field in a compact starbursting region in II Zw 40, with a spatial resolution of 5 pc offered by the IFU. To study the life cycle of dust in metal-poor galaxies, we will measure the relative abundance of the dust in aromatic and aliphatic forms to understand the formation and destruction process of dust near the star-formation site. Further, the gas-to-dust ratio varies substantially in low-metallicity environments. With the mid-infrared H2 rotational lines, the total molecular gas mass can be estimated independently, without using CO line emission. Comparing our results with the available ALMA CO observations can provide insights into the variation of the H2-to-CO conversion factor in II Zw 40.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose NIRSpec and MIRI IFU single pointing observations in the center of II Zw 40, including both star clusters - SSC-N and SSC-S.

For NIRSpec IFU, we propose to use both the G235M/F170LP and G395M/F290LP gratings to cover the wavelength of 1.66-5.1 um. 4-point-dither is used to achieve a better sampling. Since the background is low, we do not propose “off” observation, but we will obtain “leakcals" for both gratings with only the first dither position to correct the MSA leakage.

We match MIRI's coverage to NIRSpec with a 4-point dither in all four channels. An off-galaxy observation with the same depth and dither pattern has been proposed. During the acquisition of background, we will simultaneously obtain MIRI Imager observations using F770W, F1130W, and F2100W filters. While observing with MIRI Imager, to avoid bright sources in the MRS field of view, it requires constraining the Imager aperture PA range 0-292 degree. The background observation and the primary science target has also been grouped to ensure the two observations are uninterruptible.

The total time requested is 4.19 hours with 1.09 in science time.