---
id: 2512
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Natasha Batalha  Co-PI: Johanna Teske"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 141.6
program_title: "Seeing the Forest and the Trees: Unveiling Small Planet Atmospheres with a Population-Level Framework"
type: "GO"
---
# 2512 - Seeing the Forest and the Trees: Unveiling Small Planet Atmospheres with a Population-Level Framework
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2512
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                          | Observing Template                | Science Target                   |
| :----------------------------- | :-------------------------------- | :------------------------------- |
| TOI 260.01 (T1)                | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) TOI-260                      |
| TOI 260.01 (T2)                | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) TOI-260                      |
| TOI-776.01 (T1)                | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (5) TOI-776                      |
| TOI-776.01 (T2)                | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (5) TOI-776                      |
| TOI-776.02 (T1)                | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (5) TOI-776                      |
| TOI-776.02 (T2)                | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (5) TOI-776                      |
| TOI-562.01 (T1)                | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (6) TOI-562                      |
| TOI-836.01 (T1)                | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (7) TOI-836                      |
| TOI-836.02 (T1)                | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (7) TOI-836                      |
| TOI-836.02 (T2)                | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (7) TOI-836                      |
| TOI-134.01 (T1)                | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (8) TOI-134                      |
| TOI-134.01 (T2)                | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (8) TOI-134                      |
| TOI-134.01 (T3)                | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (8) TOI-134                      |
| TOI-455.01 (T1)                | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (9) TOI-455                      |
| TOI-455.01 (T1)                | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (20) TOI-455-revised             |
| WOPR TOI-455.01 (T1)           | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (20) TOI-455-revised             |
| TOI-175.01 (T1)                | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (3) TOI-175                      |
| TOI-175.01 (T2)                | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (3) TOI-175                      |
| TOI-402.01 (T1)                | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (16) TOI-402                     |
| TOI-402.02 (T1)                | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (16) TOI-402                     |
| TOI-402.02 (T2)                | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (16) TOI-402                     |
| 19 WISEA                       | NIRCam Imaging                    | (19) WISEA-J030148.40-163532.7   |
| TTRB Updated Pre Imaging TA REF 455 | NIRCam Imaging                    | (18) 455-TA-REF                  |

---

## ABSTRACT

The last decades of exoplanet exploration have revealed that the diversity of planets within the Galaxy far exceeds that within our solar system. Specifically, Kepler revealed a new population of 1-3 Rearth short period planets that seem to bridge the gap between giants and terrestrials in our own bimodal planetary system. Their bulk properties imply diminishingly thin hydrogen envelopes, producing an intermediate physical state between planets with predominantly primordial atmospheres and those with secondary atmospheres. However, we lack observations to determine whether this is truly the case, how such atmospheres are produced, and how similar or different they are to solar system planets. Atmospheric composition provides the necessary additional dimension to unveil the nature of this new class of planet, which we maintain will be JWST's greatest exoplanet legacy. We have carefully constructed the first exoplanet atmospheres survey designed to build a critical link between atmospheric characterization and planetary demographics. We will observe 11 transiting exoplanets, including four pairs of planets in the same system. By utilizing JWST's unique capabilities, we will measure the relative abundances of major molecular species expected to provide key insights into the formation and evolution pathways of exoplanets. Through our holistic approach we will analyze planets individually, within their own system architectures, and ultimately as a population. This will culminate in a program that will provide the community with a necessary kickstart to future information-rich observations of small planets, and will ultimately sculpt JWST's lasting legacy.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will observe 11 planets around 8 stars, with 3 pairs of planets within the same stellar systems. We will observe each planet with the same observational mode and set-up for consistency. In total we will observe 19 individual transit events, where each planet's transit is observed between 1 - 3 times, to achieve the needed precision for the outlined science goals. We use NIRSpec in BOTS (Bright Object Time Series) mode, which requires the S1600A1 aperture with a fixed 1.6”x1.6” field of view (FoV). We will use the G395H/F290LP combination (2.87-5.27 microns) and SUB2048 subarray for all of our observations. This will ensure a uniform treatment of the data. This program is schedulable throughout cycle 1, and there are multiple opportunities throughout the year where our target stars are visible to JWST, each with multiple transit opportunities. Each observation must be scheduled to cover the transit of the planet. We have set the phase constraints to allow for a range of 60 minutes for the JWST observation start window for ease of scheduling. For each of our observations we will obtain a minimum of (2\*Transit duration) + 1.75 hours. We anticipate needing to discard a maximum of 0.75 hours of data at the start of each observation due to detector settling effects which result in a ramp-like increase in the flux measured which would be unusable in our analysis. Our targets have transit times ranging from 1.2 hours to 2.77 hours. We calculated the time needed for each of our observations based on our science goal of reaching 30ppm precision on all of our targets; in total, the time needed includes data prior to, during, and following the transit event to obtain an adequate baseline of the stellar flux. We will measure 19 transits over 11 targets with a science time of 85.21 hours, and a total charged time of 141.64 hours including the observatory resets, overheads, slewing, and target acquisition. As all of our targets are bright (J mag: 6.4 - 7.6), therefore we will conduct target acquisition (TA) on alternative targets to avoid saturation. For TA we will utilize the Wide Aperture Target Acquisition (WATA) mode on targets that are within the visit splitting distance of each of our target stars. We have selected sources with valid 2MASS J magnitudes and Gaia DR2 proper motions to ensure they are suitable for accurate TA. We used VizieR and Aladin to validate our sources, and the online STScI ETC to determine the set-up required. For 8/11 of our targets we will use the SUB32 subarray with the clear filter, for 2/11 we will use SUB2048 with the clear filter, and 1/11 requires the full field with the clear filter to achieve the needed signal-to-noise for TA. We will double check each of these with scheduling prior to conducting the observations to ensure success of the program.