---
id: 2516
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging  MIRI/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Jacqueline Hodge  Co-PI: Elisabete da Cunha"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "14.3"
program_title: "Revealing the Hidden Stellar Emission in the Highest-fidelity ALMA-mapped Submillimeter Galaxies"
type: "GO"
---
# 2516 - Revealing the Hidden Stellar Emission in the Highest-fidelity ALMA-mapped Submillimeter Galaxies
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2516
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                                 | Observing Template | Science Target    |
| :------------------------------------ | :----------------- | :---------------- |
| NIRCam Pointing 1                     | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) NIRCAM-PT-1   |
| NIRCam Pointing 2                     | NIRCam Imaging     | (2) NIRCAM-PT-2   |
| NIRCam Pointing 2 Repeat of Observation 2 | NIRCam Imaging     | (2) NIRCAM-PT-2   |
| NIRCam Pointing 3                     | NIRCam Imaging     | (3) NIRCAM-PT-3   |
| NIRCam Pointing 4                     | NIRCam Imaging     | (4) NIRCAM-PT-4   |
| MIRI Pointing 1                       | MIRI Imaging       | (5) MIRI-PT-1     |
| MIRI Pointing 2                       | MIRI Imaging       | (6) MIRI-PT-2     |
| MIRI Pointing 3                       | MIRI Imaging       | (7) MIRI-PT-3     |
| MIRI Pointing 4                       | MIRI Imaging       | (8) MIRI-PT-4     |
| MIRI Pointing 5                       | MIRI Imaging       | (9) MIRI-PT-5     |
| MIRI Pointing 6                       | MIRI Imaging       | (10) MIRI-PT-6    |

---

## ABSTRACT

    Twenty years after their discovery, the nature of the most highly star-forming galaxies in the universe remains a mystery. Despite forming stars at 100s-1000s M_sol yr^-1, these z~2.5 submillimeter-bright galaxies (SMGs) are notoriously difficult to study with optical telescopes due to their extreme dust obscuration, rendering them faint/invisible even in deep HST H-band imaging, and leading to decades of debate on whether major mergers are necessary to trigger their starbursts. Recently, ALMA has revolutionized the field by revealing the obscured star formation in SMGs in unprecedented detail. Here we propose NIRCam+MIRI imaging at 2-7um of 12 SMGs with unrivaled high-S/N ALMA continuum imaging, which span a range in redshift and SFRs reflective of the larger SMG population. By detecting and resolving the stellar emission at rest-frame ~500nm to (crucially) 2um — a jump of a factor of 5 in rest-wavelength over the HST H-band — these observations will put first constraints on the underlying morphologies of the stellar emission in these sources, and at a resolution that is perfectly matched to that of the high-S/N ALMA imaging. This proposal will provide maps of resolved stellar mass and star formation rate (and thus, the specific star formation rate), and will yield first reliable total masses for this historically unconstrained population. These observations will provide the context necessary to interpret the ALMA-revealed star formation and its ability to morphologically transform SMGs into their proposed descendants – massive local elliptical galaxies.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

    This proposal intends to observe a sample of highly star forming galaxies spanning redshifts from 0.76 to 4.95, with NIRCam and MIRI imaging. The goals of the observations are to reveal and classify the underlying stellar morphology of these galaxies, and construct high-fidelity spatially resolved mass maps. The observations will be carried out with two NIRCam filter combinations, F200W+FF356W and F200W+F444W, and one MIRI filter, F770W. A sample of 12 galaxies will be observed in 4 pointings with NIRCam and 6 with MIRI; each of these will be dithered for optimal sampling and mitigation of bad pixel and cosmic ray issues.

    The individual galaxies are not listed as targets, as multiple galaxies can be covered per pointing. The targets listed in the proposal therefore represent the centers of these pointing locations, and the dither patterns have been chosen to maximize the area imaged to full depth (noting that the sources are not bright and we therefore do not expect persistence to be an issue). The observations contain position angle restrictions where there is a danger of targets rotating off the detector array; these restrictions have been kept to a minimum to maintain scheduling flexibility. In accordance with the recommendations, we ask for background-limited observations. Given the small sizes of our targets on the field of view, separate background observations are not required.