---
id: 2521
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Karin Sandstrom  Co-PI: Mark Wolfire"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "16"
program_title: "The First Ever Low Metallicity PDR Benchmark"
type: "GO"
---
# 2521 - The First Ever Low Metallicity PDR Benchmark
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2521
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label          | Observing Template                 | Science Target          |
| :------------- | :--------------------------------- | :---------------------- |
| N13-MIRI       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) N13PDR1-MIRI        |
| OFF-MIRI       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) OFFSMC              |
| N13-NIRSpec    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy           | (3) N13PDR1-NIRSPEC     |
| N13-NIRSpec    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy           | (3) N13PDR1-NIRSPEC     |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose the first ever near- to mid-infrared observations of the resolved structure of a low-metallicity photodissociation region (PDR). PDRs are fundamental to ISM physics and the source of a major fraction of all galactic line emission. They describe much of the molecular gas and essentially all of the atomic gas in galaxies. The first resolved maps of the Orion Bar by Tielens et al (1993), showing the transition from ionized to atomic to molecular gas using near- to mid-IR observations, became a benchmark for PDR models. Low metallicity PDRs are expected to be very different, due to the competing effects of enhanced FUV penetration due to low dust abundance, deficits in heating from the photoelectric effect from dust and photoionization by metals, and deficits in cooling due to lower abundance of elements that emit fine structure lines. With the extraordinary resolution of JWST in the near- to mid-IR we can now observe a PDR in the nearest low metallicity galaxy, the Small Magellanic Cloud, at comparable sub-pc resolution to the original Orion Bar observations. Using the NIRSpec and MIRI IFUs, we will map the resolved layers of the PDR in the N13 star-forming region of the SMC, a simple, edge-on PDR similar to Orion. We will measure temperatures, ionization structure, density, and PAH size and charge and use these to provide vital constraints for PDR models. These observations will reveal the inner workings of this key ISM component at low metallicity and are only possible in the Small Magellanic Cloud and with the angular resolution and sensitivity of JWST.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose NIRSpec and MIRI IFU observations of a photodissociation region in the Small Magellanic Cloud. This requires a single pointing with both instruments. We will use 4-point dither patterns to fully sample the PSF, using the optimization for extended sources with MIRI. We will use the medium resolution gratings on NIRSpec (G140M, G235M, G395M) and full coverage of all four channels of MRS. Our exposure times are set to detect various emission lines from H2 molecules and ions in the photodissociation region and neighboring HII region. These are 1517s in NIRSpec, with 25 groups and 1 integration and 4 dither positions in the NRSIRS2RAPID readout pattern, and 4778s in MIRI, with 50 groups and 1 integration and 4 dither positions in the SLOW readout pattern. We will obtain NIRSpec leakcals at every grating setting and dither position. We will obtain background observations for MIRI by observing a blank sky field off the Small Magellanic Cloud. We will also observe with the F560W, F770W and F1130W filters simultaneously with the MIRI MRS observations.