---
id: 2540
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Coronagraphy"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Luca Ricci"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 15.6
program_title: "Investigating the Disk-Planet Interaction in the HD 163296 System with JWST"
type: "GO"
---
# 2540 - Investigating the Disk-Planet Interaction in the HD 163296 System with JWST
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2540
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                                   | Observing Template                | Science Target  |
| :-------------------------------------- | :-------------------------------- | :-------------- |
| NIRCam Coron. MAS K210R F200W Roll 1    | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging      | (1) HD-163296   |
| NIRCam Coron. MAS K430R F410M Roll 1    | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging      | (1) HD-163296   |
| NIRCam Coron. MAS K430R F410M Roll 2    | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging      | (1) HD-163296   |
| NIRCam Coron. MAS K210R F200W Roll 2    | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging      | (1) HD-163296   |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose JWST/NIRCam observations of the planet-forming disk orbiting the young Herbig Ae star HD 163296. Recent high resolution ALMA observations have unveiled concentric annular gaps in the distribution of mm-sized pebbles at angular distances of 0.1, 0.5, 0.9, 1.5 arcsec from the central star. The two outer dust gaps show depletion also in CO gas, suggesting the possible presence of Jupiter-mass giant planets to gravitationally clear material out of their orbit. If so, also micron-sized grains should be severely depleted at the location of the two outer gaps. Moreover, the analysis of high angular and spectral resolution observations with ALMA of the CO molecular line emission have found significant discrepancies from the Keplerian rotation of the disk. Also these kinematical features have been attributed to the interaction with giant planets that would affect the 3D velocity of gas in the disk, but this scenario still lacks emipirical confirmation. This hypothesis can be directly tested via the proposed NIRCam coronagraphic observations, which have the potential to detect the emission from these young giant planets. Given the angular separations and characteristics of the multiple substructures detected in both the density and kinematics of this disk, HD 163296 represents an ideal testbed system to demonstrate the potential of JWST, in synergy with ALMA, to test models of the disk-planet interaction and planet formation.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The discovery of thousands of exoplanets over the last couple of decades has shown that the birth of planets is a very efficient process in nature. However, the physical mechanisms responsible for their formation and evolution are still poorly understood. Although theoretical investigations of the disk-planet interaction have been conducted for several decades, this theory still needs empirical validation. We propose JWST/NIRCam observations of the planet-forming disk orbiting the young Herbig Ae star HD 163296. Recent high resolution ALMA observations have unveiled concentric annular gaps in the gas and dust density distribution as well as kinematical features which have been attributed to the interaction with giant planets, but this scenario still lacks emipirical confirmation. This hypothesis can be directly tested via the proposed NIRCam coronagraphic observations, which have the potential to detect the emission from these young giant planets. Given the angular separations and characteristics of the multiple substructures detected in both the density and kinematics of this disk, HD 163296 represents an ideal testbed source to demonstrate the potential of JWST, in synergy with ALMA, to test models of the disk-planet interaction and planet formation.

We will perform coronagraphic observations with the MASK430R mask and F410M filter which give the best opportunities to detect emission from young giant planets at the locations of the disk substructures detected with ALMA. We will also observe the system with the F200W filter to be able to distinguish planetary emission from possible emission/scattering light from dust in the disk. PSF subtraction will be performed via Angular Differential Imaging with two roll angles and no reference stars, as the strong infrared excess observed in HD 163296 precludes the possibility of using nearby stars for accurate PSF subtraction.