---
id: 2550
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Larissa Markwardt"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "24.1"
program_title: "The First Near-IR Spectroscopic Survey of Neptune Trojans"
type: "GO"
---
# 2550 - The First Near-IR Spectroscopic Survey of Neptune Trojans
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2550
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                      | Observing Template         | Science Target |
| :------------------------- | :------------------------- | :------------- |
| NIRSpec IFU:2008 LC 18     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy   | (2) 2008LC18   |
| NIRSpec IFU: 2011 W G157   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy   | (6) 2011WG157  |
| NIRSpec IFU: 2013 K Y18    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy   | (4) 2013KY18   |
| NIRSpec IFU: 2013 K Y18+HOPR | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy   | (4) 2013KY18   |
| NIRSpec IFU: 2011 H M102   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy   | (3) 2011HM102  |
| NIRSpec IFU: 2011 H M102   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy   | (3) 2011HM102  |
| NIRSpec IFU: 2013 V X30    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy   | (5) 2013VX30   |
| NIRSpec IFU: 2006 RJ 103   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy   | (12) 2006RJ103 |
| NIRSpec IFU: 2007 VL 305   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy   | (8) 2007VL305  |
| NIRSpec IFU: 2011 SO 277   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy   | (7) 2011SO277  |
| NIRSpec IFU: 2010 TS 191   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy   | (11) 2010TS191 |

## ABSTRACT

Trojan asteroids, which librate around a planet's L4 or L5 point, are thought to be remnants of our primordial disk as the strong 1:1 resonance means they can be stable on order the age of the Solar System. This resonance relationship means that Trojans are also tied to the evolution of their planet, meaning that giant planet Trojans can also be used to constrain planetary migration models. Neptune Trojans (NTs) are a particularly puzzling population; while they are expected to have a mix of red and ultra-red surfaces, only one ultra-red NT has been discovered to date. It is possible that collisions between NTs and Plutinos shifted the NT colors blueward over time, but colors are limited in their capacity to answer this question as a variety of processes and compositions can affect the colors of planetary bodies, often in ways that are indistinguishable from each other. Near-IR spectra can provide more information about these planetary surfaces as many broad molecular absorption features occur at these wavelengths. In particular, these features can be used to measure ice composition, ice irradiation products, surface grain size, and the ice phase. Therefore, we propose to take the first near-IR spectroscopic survey of NTs in order to study the ultra-red NT's surface in more detail, compare L4 and L5 NTs, and compare unstable NTs to Centaurs. JWST is vital to this program as these objects are too faint to take reasonable spectra using ground-based facilities. Regardless of the exact outcomes, these measurements would lead to a better understanding of the formation and evolution of NTs and the giant planets.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The requested observations are to take Near-IR reflectance spectra of 9 Neptune Trojans. We will be using the NIRSpec IFU with the PRISM for all of the targets. We will not be doing any target aquisition, instead doing a blind pointing into the IFU FOV; the positional uncertainties for all of our targets + the pointing uncertainty will be less than 1.5" at the time of observation. We will also be using a 2-point nod dither pattern and the NRSIRS2RAPID readout pattern for all of our targets. All of our targets are distant Solar System objects, meaning they will be point sources and will not exceed the angular rate of motion limit. Our list of targets (with overall science time) is as follows:
- 2008 LC18 - 3.24 hrs
- 2011 WG157 - 0.8 hrs
- 2013 KY18 - 0.8 hrs
- 2011 HM102 - 2 hrs
- 2013 VX30 - 1 hrs
- 2006 RJ103 - 0.8 hrs
- 2007 VL305 - 1.2 hrs
- 2011 SO277 - 1.2 hrs
- 2010 TS191 - 1.6 hrs