---
id: 2559
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Ilaria Caiazzo  Co-PI: Harvey Richer"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "20.7"
program_title: "Brown Dwarfs, White Dwarfs and Planetary Disks in an Ancient Stellar System"
type: "GO"
---
# 2559 - Brown Dwarfs, White Dwarfs and Planetary Disks in an Ancient Stellar System
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2559
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :---- | :----------------- | :------------- |
| 1     | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) NGC-104    |
| 51    | NIRCam Imaging     | (2) NGC-104-v4 |

## ABSTRACT

Globular clusters are the oldest assemblages of stars in our Galaxy. Their roughly coeval populations, sharing the same composition and distance from Earth, are ideal laboratories to test out theories of stellar evolution. We here propose to observe the globular cluster 47 Tucanae, one of the richest and most carefully observed clusters in our Galaxy, to observe for the first time the cooling brown dwarf sequence and to hunt for ancient planetary systems around white dwarfs. A sample of brown dwarfs that are well characterized in age, distance and metal content will help break the degeneracies that plague current brown dwarf observations and will provide an important test sample for theoretical models of these objects. Additionally, the location of the brown dwarf sequence in the JWST CMD presents a new method for estimating the age of the cluster itself. With the same observations, we will have a large sample of hot white dwarfs, between 9,500~K and 25,000~K, of which about 5% are expected to show the presence of a debris disk if the population is similar to that of the field. On the other hand, observing the faint end of the white dwarf cooling sequence in the infrared will lead to a better understanding of atmospheric properties and systematic issues in our current models.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to observe the globular cluster 47 Tucane with NIRCam in imaging mode with the ultra-wide filters F150W2 and F322W2 to obtain very deep observations of faint white dwarfs, brown dwarfs and debris disks around white dwarfs.
We chose a field in the outskirts of the cluster (so that the relaxation time in the field is greater than the age of the cluster) and for which there are available deep HST observations. Our mosaic configuration will cover most of the HST deep field observed in GO-11677. Additionally, two NIRCam modules will cover fields closer to the center of the cluster, where there is also HST data (GO-12971) and two NIRCam modules will additionally cover fields at a larger distance from the center.
The search for faint brown dwarfs is what drives the exposure time. As we aim to maximize the signal to noise for faint objects, we choose a MEDIUM8 pattern with 8 groups and use a 16 subpixel dither and one integration per dither. This yields a total exposure time per field of about 3.7 hours, and S/N ratio of 15 in F322W2 and of 21 in F150W2 for a brown dwarf with magnitude in F150W2 of 28 (Vegamag).
In order to maximize the coverage of already available HST data, we provide a range of PA: between 0 and 30 degrees and between 330 and 359 degrees. In this way, 6 out of 8 modules in the mosaic will cover an existing HST field.