---
id: 2560
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Anna Marino"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "19/13"
program_title: "Solving the Globular Clusters Multiple Population Enigma through JWST"
type: "GO"
---
# 2560 - Solving the Globular Clusters Multiple Population Enigma through JWST
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2560
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label              | Observing Template                | Science Target              |
| :----------------- | :-------------------------------- | :-------------------------- |
| new150622a         | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (7) CATALOGUE-120722E       |
| Apr23_2            | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (8) CATALOGUE-120722E-OCT22 |
| Aug23_5 (Obs 17)   | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (8) CATALOGUE-120722E-OCT22 |

---

## ABSTRACT

Since its discovery, the multiple population phenomenon is an enigma in the field of stellar populations. We propose combined spectroscopic and photometric JWST observations that will finally solve this long-standing issue. So far, two competing scenarios are available: 1) multiple bursts of star formation; 2) accretion of material onto existing stars. In the first scenario the population pattern is expected to be identical for stars with different masses, while the accretion scenario should result in substantially more pronounced chemical differences and fractions of second population stars at higher-masses. The exploration of the M dwarf realm and the comparison of the multiple population properties in this very-low mass regime with those of red giants will shed light on the origin of this enigmatic phenomenon. The NIRSpec+NIRCam facilities will provide the unique opportunity to gather spectra and precise photometric diagrams of faint M dwarfs in GCs, not easily accessible to other facilities. Our spectral synthesis and simulated diagrams suggest that the requested data, combined with HST UV archival images, will allow us to infer the O abundance range in the M dwarfs, which will be compared to that observed among red giants, and precise mass functions of multiple populations from ~0.8 solar masses towards the H-burning limit. These first JWST observations will be a milestone in our understanding of such an eluding phenomenon, and a step forward for many closely related issues, e.g. star formation in dense early environments, stellar evolution and nucleosynthesis, the role of proto-clusters in the cosmic reionization and the contribution of GCs to the Milky Way Halo.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The goal of this proposal is an investigation of M dwarfs in the globular cluster 47 Tucanae to shed light on the formation scenarios of multiple stellar populations. We will take advantage of NIRSpec+NIRCam parallel observations to derive the oxygen abundance range in the M dwarf stars from spectroscopy and mass functions from a high precision color-magnitude diagram. We have chosen the NIRSpec and NIRCam fields of view to be located at similar radial distances from the cluster center. The NIRSpec field of view overlaps with the HST field from GO11453, for which we have already a deep color-magnitude diagram based on the filters F110W and F160W which allow us a proper selection of the spectroscopic targets. The NIRCam fields partially overlap with the HST field from GO12580, from which we have the UV filters F336W and F275W. The UV CMD will allow us to identify multiple populations and extend their mass functions up to the upper main sequence and the red-giant branch.