---
id: 2561
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging  NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Ivo Labbe  Co-PI: Rachel Bezanson"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "68.2/50.2"
program_title: "UNCOVER: Ultra-deep NIRCam and NIRSpec Observations Before the Epoch of Reionization"
type: "GO, Treasury"
---
# 2561 - UNCOVER: Ultra-deep NIRCam and NIRSpec Observations Before the Epoch of Reionization
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2561
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                       | Observing Template              | Science Target                     |
| :-------------------------- | :------------------------------ | :--------------------------------- |
|                             | NIRCam Imaging                  | (3) ABELL2744-PREIMG               |
|                             | NIRCam Imaging                  | (6) ABELL2744-PREIMG-REPEAT1-19N47D |
| uncover nircam 13.8         | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy| (1) uncover nircam                 |
| uncover nirspec rerepea test| NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy| (7) uncover_nirspec_repeat         |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose an efficient public Treasury program that immediately establishes a NIRCam imaging deep field and ultra-deep low-resolution NIRSpec/PRISM follow-up spectroscopy in the gravitational lensing cluster Frontier Field Abell 2744. Assisted by strong lensing, these observations reach 1-2 magnitudes fainter than even the deepest ERS & GTO programs. Such depths are essential to achieve two core science goals of JWST: finding First Light galaxies during the Dark Ages at z>10 and studying the ultra-low luminosity galaxies at later times that were responsible for reionization. Offering the community early access to deep imaging of 4000 z>6 galaxies and spectroscopy of 500 galaxies ensures that this envisioned flagship science is guaranteed early in the mission, establishes from the start a vibrant and diverse user base for the observatory, and optimizes the efficiency of JWST by providing targets for higher resolution spectroscopic follow up in subsequent cycles. In support of this, we included imaging parallels to enhance the deep imaging legacy on and around the cluster. Beyond the immediate science goals, these data will support a broad array of legacy science including stellar mass complete studies to z=10, the role of dust obscuration at high redshift, and the various pathways of quenching star formation. Our experienced team commits to rapidly releasing the imaging to the public before the Cycle 2 deadline followed by the delivery of a joint photometric and spectroscopic database.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The basic plan is to first obtain deep 4-6 hour / filter NIRCam pre-imaging on the A2744 cluster to 29.5-30AB magnitude in 8 filters. Six months later, within cycle 1, we target sources detected in NIRCam with ultradeep 19 hour NIRSpec/PRISM low-resolution spectroscopy. In both observations we include deep parallel imaging (in NIRISS and NIRCam, respectively), to increase the area for deep photometric studies of high-redshift galaxies at mild lensing magnification 1.1-1.3x.

We forward model theoretical luminosity functions of Mason+2015 through the CATS v4.1 lens model of A2744 (Jauzac+2015) to predict the number of z=6-16 galaxies to our detection limit. The number of z>10 galaxies is maximized by a 2-pointing gap-filled NIRCam mosaic. To reach MUV=-14.0 at z=6-7 with less than <3 magnitudes of lensing (where models are considered robust, requires 29.8AB 5 sigma, which can be reached in ~4 hours per in F200W and ~6 hours in F115W according to JWST ETC 1.5.2.

The NIRCam imaging is designed to detect objects to the highest redshifts z=10-16 and ultra low luminosities MUV>-14 with gravitational lensing. NIRSpec/PRISM will deliver robust redshifts at z=1-20, measurements of the stellar continuum, emission lines to z<12, and Lyman break measurements z>12.

To ensure the broadest possible legacy science we image in all broadband NIRCam filters, except for optical bands if ultradeep ACS data is available. For the cluster pre-imaging map we use: F115W (6h) F150W (6h) F200W (4h): F277W (4h), F356W (4h), F444W (4h). Following the GTO best-practice we add the medium band F410M, which is sensitive to emission lines and improves photometric redshifts and stellar masses of high-z galaxies.

The NIRCam parallel (with NIRSpec/PRISM as primary) uses the same filters as our NIRCam pre-imaging, integrating 4.6h in F115W,F150W, adding deep F090W (5.3h), as no deep optical data exists, and 2.3h in F200W, F277W, F356W, F444W, F335M, F410M. For the NIRISS parallel we remove need to remove some filters as it lacks NIRCam's dichroic and flexibility in parallel mode is limited. We remove F277W and F410M which have the least scientific impact, keeping F115W, F150W, F200W, F356W, F444W. For our favored roll angle, NIRISS fortuitously overlaps with the 42-orbit 29 AB F814W Hubble A2744 ACS parallel field, obviating the need for optical data.

A primary goal of UNCOVER is to take NIRSpec PRISM R=100 spectra to measure continuum redshifts of any faint high redshift object detected securely with NIRCam to ~10 sigma or ~29AB. In 20hours PRISM reaches a SNR~3 per resolution element for 29AB sources at 1.5 micron, which is sufficient for continuum redshifts. Emission lines can me measured at >5 sigma for any sources to 30AB and EW_{obs}>600A (typical sources should have lines 5x stronger than that).

NIRCam selected sources will be analyzed by constructing HST/ACS + JWST/NIRCam multiwavelength SEDs, detecting in F200W for young starforming galaxies at z=8-15 and z<4 quiescent galaxies, F277W for z=15-20, while selecting in F444W for mass-complete samples to z<10 (including quiescent and dusty galaxies at z>4). Redshift selection will be determined by the photometric redshift probability distribution using software such as EAZY (Brammer+2008).

To reach our key science goals and support a range of legacy science goals we prioritize spectroscopic targets according to scientific value and rarity: 1) any z>12 candidates, 2) z>9 galaxies prioritized by brightness, 3) z>6 Pop III candidate sources, 4) faint highly magnified z=6-7 galaxies, 5) quiescent galaxies z>4, 6) z>6 AGN, 7) dusty galaxies z>4, 8) low mass quiescent galaxies at z=1-4, 9) any unusual or unexpected sources, 10) Extreme emission line galaxies, 11) mass-selected galaxies sampled in bins of mass and redshift.

We estimate that we can accommodate 15-20 high priority sources to our full depth of 19 hours. Other sources require less exposure time. The NIRSpec integration times naturally split up in 7 dithered sequences of 2.7 hours each. We therefore design 7 masks with exposure time ranging from 2.7-19 hours, repeating the high priority objects. Given the high target density of some lower priority targets (there are 1000s of high-z emission line galaxies), we expect to fill each mask with ~100 targets for a total of 500 spectra in the spectroscopic sample.