---
id: 2562
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging  MIRI/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Francois Menard  Co-PI: Karl Stapelfeldt"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 10.8
program_title: "Dust Settling and Grain Evolution in Edge-on Protoplanetary Disks"
type: "GO"
---
# 2562 - Dust Settling and Grain Evolution in Edge-on Protoplanetary Disks
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2562
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                      | Observing Template | Science Target                   |
| :------------------------- | :----------------- | :------------------------------- |
| Tau042021 - NIRCam         | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) 2MASS-J04202144+2813491      |
| Tau042021 - MIRI           | MIRI Imaging       | (1) 2MASS-J04202144+2813491      |
| IRAS04302 - NIRCam         | NIRCam Imaging     | (2) IRAS-04302+2247              |
| IRAS04302 - MIRI           | MIRI Imaging       | (2) IRAS-04302+2247              |
| HH30 - NIRCam              | NIRCam Imaging     | (3) HH-30-NIRCAM                 |
| HH30 - MIRI                | MIRI Imaging       | (4) HH-30-MIRI                   |
| HH30 - NIRCam - repeat     | NIRCam Imaging     | (3) HH-30-NIRCAM                 |
| HH30 - MIRI - repeat       | MIRI Imaging       | (4) HH-30-MIRI                   |
| Oph163131 - NIRCam         | NIRCam Imaging     | (5) 2MASS-J16313124-2426281      |
| Oph163131 - MIRI           | MIRI Imaging       | (5) 2MASS-J16313124-2426281      |

## ABSTRACT

Young, edge-on circumstellar disks are uniquely valuable laboratories for the study of planet formation. With the central star occulted from direct view, the disk is clearly seen as a central dust lane flanked by reflected light from its upper and lower surfaces. The detailed morphology and chromaticity of these nebulae provides crucial information on disk vertical structure and the properties of its constituent dust grains. Spectral energy distributions and very limited groundbased imaging have shown that edge-on protoplanetary disks continue to be dominated by scattered light even out to wavelengths of 20 microns. JWST imaging of these targets therefore offers the unique opportunity to probe the disk interior between the optical scattered light surface seen with HST and the cold midplane emission recently revealed by ALMA. We propose broad-band NIRCam and MIRI imaging of four edge-on protoplanetary disks spanning a range of evolutionary states. The targets are among the largest in angular size of their class and thus should be vertically resolved by JWST even at 20 microns. The images will reveal the wavelength evolution of both the dust lane thickness and the strength of forward scattering, which when interpreted by model fitting will allow us to derive the grainsize as a function of height in the disk and thus the extent of dust vertical settling that has taken place. This project will empirically quantify for the first time how the dust concentration increases toward the disk midplane (a necessary condition to efficiently form planetesimals), leaving a legacy of fundamental importance for our understanding of protoplanetary disk evolution.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will observe each of our four targets in five filters to probe the evolution of the disk scattered light nebulosity with wavelength. As the target stars are variable, we require all the observation of each target to execute consecutively without interruption.

The NIRCam observations consist of a F200W/F444W image pair. All of our primary targets are smaller than 20 arcsec in extent. We will image with the full array without large dithers, but with subpixel dithers at 4 positions to reject bad pixels and build up subsampled images. These images are designed to sample the wavelength evolution of the nebula structure, taking advantage of JWST's stability to make the best strehl ratio images ever obtained for these targets in K and M band. The S/N and PSF quality are crucial for good modeling results: the brightness gradients of the two disk nebulae as they fade into the central dark lane are the primary observables constraining the disk scale height. The total charged time for the NIRCam observations is 3.7 hours.

The MIRI observations consist of F770W, F1280W. and F2100W images. The BRIGHTSKY subarray will be used to limit saturation on the thermal background in the F2100W filter; its 56" field of view is sufficient to cover our targets. The observations will be four-point dithered with the extended source dither scale. Due to the variation in integrated brightness and nebular area (by as much factors of 5 between targets), the exposure times must be tailored for each. As the faintest and largest disk, Tau042021 requires almost three times as much MIRI integration time as the smallest target Oph163131. Despite the higher backgrounds, the F2100W exposures are shorter than those at F1280W due to the source emission spanning fewer diffraction-limited resolution elements. The total charged time for MIRI observations is 7.1 hours.