---
id: 2565
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Karl Glazebrook  Co-PI: Themiya Nanayakkara"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "14.4"
program_title: "How Many Quiescent Galaxies Are There at 3<z<4 Really?"
type: "GO"
---
# 2565 - How Many Quiescent Galaxies Are There at 3<z<4 Really?
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2565
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                        | Observing Template            | Science Target                           |
| :--------------------------- | :---------------------------- | :--------------------------------------- |
| COSMOS obs 1.2               | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (29) COSMOS-ZFOURGE-FINAL-V1-OBS1      |
| COSMOS 2.6                   | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (35) COSMOS-ZFOURGE-FINAL-V2-OBS2      |
| UDS ZFOURGE Set 10.2         | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (24) UDS-THREEDHST-FINAL-V7-OBS100     |
| UDS ZFOURGE Set 20.1         | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (25) UDS-THREEDHST-FINAL-V7-OBS200     |
| UDS THREEDHST 10.0           | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (26) UDS-THREEDHST-FINAL-V7-OBS300     |
| cosmos 7.6                   | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (32) COSMOS-ZFOURGE-FINAL-V2-OBS3      |
| COSMOS obs 1.31              | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (29) COSMOS-ZFOURGE-FINAL-V1-OBS1      |
| EGS v2.89                    | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (47) EGS-THREEDHST-FINAL-V2.80         |

---

## ABSTRACT

We will find out.

This is important because massive quiescent galaxies at high-redshift have historically driven forward our understanding of galaxy formation and evolution. Numerous spectroscopic confirmations have shown that these galaxies do exist at z>3, however the measured number densities are still highly uncertain and depend on large photometrically selected samples. Massive quiescent galaxies at high-redshift evolve rapidly and so constraining hydrodynamical simulations with precise number densities is critical.

To address this, a recent spectroscopic campaign to target 24 photometrically pre-selected quiescent galaxy candidates (z>3, stellar mass>2E10 Msun selection) was undertaken with MOSFIRE/Keck in H+K. Here only 12 galaxies were spectroscopically confirmed, 3 of which were highly uncertain, leaving a possible 12 quiescent galaxies still unconfirmed - many with continuum detections and no emission lines.

Here we propose to observe the 15 uncertain or unconfirmed quiescent galaxy candidates with JWST NIRSpec PRISM, which will allow wide field-of-view observations and continuous 0.6–5µm spectral coverage to efficiently measure their spectra and produce highly complete and definitive number densities and ages. These galaxies are the fainter ones in the quiescent galaxy candidate sample but not necessarily the least massive, as the older age populations will be less luminous. Confirming these massive galaxies would pose significant challenges for galaxy formation and evolution theories.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This proposal requests shallow NIRSpec Prism observations to target a sample of UVJ Quiescent galaxies at z~3-4. They are selected from deep Hubble imaging and have been followed up with ground based spectroscopy. However, due to atmospheric contamination their redshift completeness is not known. If indeed these galaxies are confirmed to be quiescent, the existence of such a large population at z>3 would lead to significant tensions with current galaxy evolutionary theory.

By obtaining NIRSpec prism spectroscopy with complete wavelength coverage between 1-5 microns to z>3 15 UVJ quiescent candidates, this proposal will provide stringent limits to the abundance of massive quiescent galaxies in the early Universe. These galaxies are relatively bright (K~<24) for typical high redshift sources, therefore an on-source exposure time of 30 min is sufficient to address all our science goals.