---
id: 2566
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU  NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Gourav Khullar"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "19.4"
program_title: "Characterizing Stellar Mass Assembly and Physical Properties in the Brightest Galaxy in the Redshift>5 Universe"
type: "GO"
---
# 2566 - Characterizing Stellar Mass Assembly and Physical Properties in the Brightest Galaxy in the Redshift>5 Universe
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2566
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template       | Science Target         |
| :---- | :----------------------- | :--------------------- |
| 1     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (6) Group J1241+2219   |
| 4     | NIRCam Imaging           | (2) J1241+2219-B       |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose for spectroscopy and imaging of COOL J1241+2219, a recently discovered lensed galaxy at z=5.043 that at H_AB=20.5 is the brightest galaxy (at OIR wavelengths) known at z>=5. COOL J1241+2219 is 5x brighter than the prior record-holder at these redshifts, and as such it has become the target of extensive follow-up observations, both from space- and ground-based observatories. This galaxy is at a redshift that allows NIRSPec IFU observations that in two grating settings span the entire suite of classical diagnostic emission lines at R~1000. That spectroscopy, and complementary NIRCam imaging, will allow measurement a host of properties in this galaxy, and due to lensing at spatial scales of ~100 pc! Specifically we will measure the morphology and internal structucture, dynamics, metallicities, physical conditions of the nebular gas and powering hot stars, and the star formation history back into and through the epoch of reionization. We will do this both for the galaxy as a whole at exquisite signal levels, to connect this galaxy to broader extant knowledge of the z~5 universe, and patch-by-patch at ~100 pc scales. A key and defining aspect of these observations will be the measurement of "direct" metallicities, establishing a critical benchmark for many other expected JWST studies. This modest invetment of time with an extraordinary observatory observing an extraordinary object will establish a key observational reference at an epoch immediately following reionization, where our detailed knowledge of galaxies is still remarkably limited.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose NIRCam imaging and NIRSpec IFU spectroscopy for COOL J2241+2219 (z=5.043, H_ABmag=20.5). We request imaging in the F115W,F150W, F200W, F250M, F335M, and F460M filters, with SHALLOW4 readout, and a 4-1-4 (groups-integration-exposure) on a 4-point dither strategy. We request IFU spectroscopy with the F235M and F395M gratings, with a NRSIRS2 readout, and a 16-1-4 (groups-integration-exposure) and 4-pointings + 1 off-source pointing strategy.