---
id: 2567
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Matthew Taylor  Co-PI: Patrick Cote"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "41.2"
program_title: "Do Massive Black Holes Come in Small Packages? A Census of Black Holes in Compact Stellar Systems in the Virgo Cluster"
type: "GO"
---
# 2567 - Do Massive Black Holes Come in Small Packages? A Census of Black Holes in Compact Stellar Systems in the Virgo Cluster
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2567
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :------------------ | :---------------------- | :-------------------------- |
| UCD-453 | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (5) UCD-453 |
| UCD-761 | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (23) UCD-761 |
| UCD-395 | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (34) UCD-395 |
| UCD-218 | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (35) UCD-218 |
| UCD-736 | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (36) UCD-736 |
| UCD-504 | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (37) UCD-504 |
| UCDe-372 | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (31) UCDE-372 |
| UCDe-374 | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (32) UCDE-374 |
| UCDe-444 | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (33) UCDE-444 |
| cE-VCC1192 | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (19) CE-VCC1192 |
| cE-VCC1199 | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (20) CE-VCC1199 |
| cE-VCC1297 | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (21) CE-VCC1297 |
| cE-VCC1627 | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (22) CE-VCC1627 |
| NSC-VCC1261 | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (26) NSC-VCC1261 |
| NSC-VCC1910 | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (27) NSC-VCC1910 |
| NSC-VCC1661 | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (28) NSC-VCC1661 |
| NSC-VCC1539 | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (29) NSC-VCC1539 |
| NSC-VCC1075 | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (30) NSC-VCC1075 |
| M49 Sky Background | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (38) M49-SKYBACKGROUND |
| M87 Sky Background | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (40) M87-SKYBACKGROUND |

---

## ABSTRACT

The black hole (BH) mass function (MF) in the local universe - a fundamental measure of the origin and growth of BHs over Cosmic time - remains poorly constrained at intermediate masses. The very existence of BHs in this mass range is debated, but likely hosts include low-mass dwarf galaxies, for which the occupation fraction of BHs is an important ingredient for competing theories on supermassive BH (SMBH) formation. Observational challenges limit available avenues to search for BHs in dwarfs, but one under-utilized strategy is to infer the presence of central BHs by their dynamical influence on the cores of compact stellar systems (CSSs) including globular clusters, nuclear star clusters, ultra-compact dwarf galaxies (UCDs), and compact elliptical galaxies. CSSs have interconnected (often galactic) formation histories, and this technique has recently been successful in detecting SMBHs in several nearby UCDs, thereby proving their galactic origins as the remnant nuclei of former dwarf galaxies tidally stripped of their outer stellar sheaths. With the launch of JWST a systematic census of BHs in CSSs possible, as similar studies are prohibitively expensive using current ground or space-based facilities. To capitalize on JWST's capabilities we propose to use NIRSpec+IFU to obtain spatially-resolved stellar kinematics of 18 carefully selected CSSs crossing nearly four decades in mass, and located in a single cluster environment (Virgo). The R~2700 spectral datacubes will reveal dynamical fingerprints of BHs with masses >~10^5.5 Msun, providing enw insights into the occupation fraction of BHs in low-mass systems, and critical information on the origin of both CSSs and SMBHs.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to use NIRSpec in IFU mode at its highest resolution with the G235H/F170LP grating/filter combination to study black hole (BHs) in a selection of 18 compact stellar systems (CSSs) in the Virgo galaxy cluster (D=16.7~Mpc). These datacubes will provide R~2700 spectral resolution across the 1.66-3.17um wavelength range, including several CO bandheads near 2.35 um. We will measure spatially resolved stellar kinematics from these and other prominent absorpion features to search for the dynamical influence of central massive black holes (BHs) residing in the CSS cores. In most cases, the dynamical influence of the BHs is expected to boost the stellar velocity dispersions above ~50~km/s, similar to the velocity FWHM of NIRSpec/IFU in our adopted instrumental setup.
We have carried out several simulations for our targets that include measured structural parameters, to determine that reliable kinematics can be recovered with spectral quality of S/N~15-20 per resolution element. Due to the compact natures of many of our targets, we will use a two-point in-scene nod where possibe (i.e. CSSs with sizes smaller than 0.2-0.3") and for the rest a four-point dither strategy will be sufficient to model the sky background and/or host galaxy spheroid light. This strategy helps to keep our observations efficient, and minimizes overheads. Furthermore, while our observations will achieve our required S/N in the CSS core regions, we will use an adaptive Voronoi tesselation spatial binning strategy to boost the S/N in the outskirts and thereby construct 2D kinematic maps of our targets so that our science goals can be realized.