---
id: 2571
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Jessica Libby-Roberts  Co-PI: Zach Berta-Thompson"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 20.5
program_title: "Unveiling the Atmospheric Composition and Haze Formation Rates in the Young, Cool, Super-Puff Kepler-51d"
type: "GO"
---
# 2571 - Unveiling the Atmospheric Composition and Haze Formation Rates in the Young, Cool, Super-Puff Kepler-51d
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2571
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
1.  **List of the Labels, the corresponding Observing Template and the Science Targets:**

    | Label      | Observing Template                  | Science Target |
    | :--------- | :---------------------------------- | :------------- |
    | Kepler-51d | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) KEPLER-51  |

## ABSTRACT

    To date, the atmospheres of young, cool, and low-mass exoplanets have remained a largely unexplored mystery to us. As the majority of these types of planets have transmission spectra with features too small to detect with Hubble/WFC3's precision, we know very little about how these planets form and evolve. Much of what we do know from observations, we have had to extrapolate from hotter, older, or more massive exoplanets. But is this a valid assumption? Do cool and low-mass planets form and evolve under the same conditions, following similar pathways? Webb is poised to answer these questions over the next decade by observing the spectra of these cooler, less-massive worlds. With these observations we can finally integrate new planets spanning new parameters into our models, enabling us to test current planetary formation and evolution theories. To accomplish this, we are proposing to observe the transmission spectrum of Kepler-51d, a cool, young, low-mass super-puff planet. By capitalizing on Kepler-51d's large scale height, we will characterize the chemical composition of its atmosphere and the structure of its haze layer, which was previously observed by Hubble/WFC3. In doing so, we will begin to quantitatively understand where Kepler-51d formed in its disk and what atmospheric evolution processes this young planet is currently undergoing as it moves towards its final quiescent state.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

    We are proposing to observe 1 transit of Kepler-51d with the BOTS mode on NIRSpec using the low-resolution prism. The observation will utilize the S1600A1 with the SUB1024B subarray and nsrapid readout. We will use 8 groups/integration with 14818 integrations/exposures which will place us below the 70% saturation limit according to the JWST ETC. This will give us a SNR of 320 in one integration.

    Observations must be centered on the mid-transit time of Kepler-51d. This planet demonstrates extreme transit timing variations up to 100 minutes. While the mid-transit time of each transit is known to a 20 minute precision window (99% confidence), we plan to update the ephemeris once we know the schedule window that is under consideration. Also, with a period of 130 days, the APT Visit Finder finds two observable transits in 2022 and one in 2023.

    The transit duration for Kepler-51d is 8.48 hours. While it is standard procedure to request equal in and out of transit time for systematics characterization, we are asking for 16.81 hours (science+instrument overhead) for the transit observation in order to utilize the SUB1024B array. Combined we are requesting 14.87 hours for science and 21.45 hours total (including all overheads).

    Kepler-51 has a J-band magnitude of 13.56, enabling us to use WATA to acquire directly on our target. We propose using the 140X filter to maximize our S/N with the SUB32 subarray and 3 groups per integration.