---
id: 2574
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU  MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Michael Brown"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "25.5"
program_title: "JWST Observations of Lucy Mission Targets"
type: "GO"
---
# 2574 - JWST Observations of Lucy Mission Targets
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2574
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                       | Observing Template                 | Science Target   |
| :-------------------------- | :--------------------------------- | :--------------- |
| Patroclus NIRSPEC           | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy           | (1) PATROCLUS    |
| Eurybates NIRSPEC           | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy           | (2) EURYBATES    |
| Polymele NIRSPEC            | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy           | (3) POLYMELE     |
| Orus NIRSPEC                | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy           | (4) ORUS         |
| Leucus NIRSPEC              | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy           | (5) LEUCUS       |
| Patroclus MIRI              | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy| (1) PATROCLUS    |
| Eurybates MIRI              | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy| (2) EURYBATES    |
| Polymele MIRI               | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy| (3) POLYMELE     |
| Orus MIRI                   | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy| (4) ORUS         |
| Leucus MIRI                 | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy| (5) LEUCUS       |

## ABSTRACT

The Lucy spacecraft – to be launched at approximately the same time as JWST – will perform the first ever in situ exploration of the Jupiter Trojan asteroids. Trojans are the largest population of solar system bodies currently unvisited by spacecraft, and revealing their composition and formation history is the key to untangling disparate hypothesis for the early dynamical evolution of the entire solar system.
Understanding these enigmatic bodies requires not just the high spatial resolution imagery and spectroscopy that will be afforded by Lucy, but also the superb near- and mid-infrared spectroscopy of which JWST is uniquely capable. The high signal-to-noise, high spectral resolution, and extended wavelength coverage beyond the capabilities of Lucy will allow JWST to sensitively probe the organic, carbonate, and silicate components of the surfaces of the Trojans. Meanwhile, the Lucy spectra and images will place these observations into their geological and historical context, greatly extending the scientific utility of both the JWST observations and the Lucy visit. Together these observations will paint a rich picture of this population, allowing us to trace connections with other bodies studied remotely and in situ across the solar system.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This proposal observes the 5 Jupiter Trojan asteroids which are targets of the Lucy Discovery mission using NIRSpec medium resolution grisms and MIRI medium resolution spectroscopy.
All NIRSPEC observations use the IFU to avoid acquisition overheads and each target is observed in the G235M and G395M grism.
The MIRI observations cover the full wavelength range using the MRS mode.