---
id: 2581
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging  MIRI/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Rupali Chandar"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "6"
program_title: "Come Out, Come Out, Wherever You Are: Seeking All the Massive Young Clusters Hidden in the Antennae"
type: "GO"
---
# 2581 - Come Out, Come Out, Wherever You Are: Seeking All the Massive Young Clusters Hidden in the Antennae
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2581
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label            | Observing Template | Science Target      |
| :--------------- | :----------------- | :------------------ |
| NIRCAM Overlap   | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) ANTENNAE-NIRCAM |
| MIRI Overlap     | MIRI Imaging       | (2) ANTENNAE-MIRI   |

---

## ABSTRACT

The so-called ‘overlap' region of the nearby merging Antennae galaxies provides a unique laboratory to study the formation of young globular clusters. While Hubble has already revealed some of these massive young clusters in the optical and near-infrared, the vast majority remain hidden behind large amounts of dust which reach extinction values as high as Av~30 mag. JWST now enables the characterization (ages/masses) of essentially ALL deeply buried young (<10 Myr), massive (>10,000 Msun) clusters in the dusty overlap region for the first time, using NIRCam & MIRI imaging. From the resulting complete catalog of young massive clusters (including optically selected ones from HST), we will determine the fraction of stars formed in clusters & construct and fit the initial cluster mass function. The results will be compared with predictions from hydrodynamic simulations which use a large range of prescriptions for star formation and stellar feedback in galaxy mergers. A comparison between the mass function of clusters and molecular clouds detected in available ALMA observations will yield estimates of the star cluster formation efficiency. Maps of 3.3 to 7.7 micron PAH emission will help diagnose grain sizes in this extreme star-forming environment. The strong IR emission from luminous infrared galaxies (LIRGs) usually comes from a combination of star formation and an accreting AGN; the Antennae present a unique case where the IR emission is driven only by star formation. This system therefore provides a critical bridge between star formation processes in normal (disk) galaxies, and the more intensely star-forming galaxies commonly found in the young and distant universe.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will observe the intensely star-forming overlap region and northern disk of the Antennae galaxies with NIRCam and MIRI Imaging.

We propose single-module NIRCAM imaging (which covers the region of interest) in a total of 5 filters. Two of them cover the hydrogen emission lines Paschen alpha (F187N) and Brackett alpha (F410M), and two others cover adjacent featureless continuum (F150W and F360M). Since the required exposure time in the F150W filter is approximately double that required for the filters in the long-wavelength arm of NIRCam, we break those observations into 2 sets, and include a filter covering the PAH 3.3 micron feature (F335M) in one of those.

We use a mosaic of two MIRI pointings to cover the same part of the Antennae to observe the 7.7 micron PAH feature (F770W).

We optimize the mutual NIRCam and MIRI imaging coverage by using two separate targets (one for each instrument) along with the OFFSET special requirement to adjust the nominal pointing (i.e., the aperture) for each instrument to a location near a detector center, since the default apertures for NIRCam and MIRI imaging are not adequate in this context.

We impose an orientation (PA_V3) range of ~100 degrees in order to keep the northern disk within the NIRCam field of view, which gives ~50 days of schedulability during the year. We allow the MIRI observation to have an Aperture PA within +/- 10 degrees of that of the NIRCam observation.

Readout patterns will be SHALLOW4 (NIRCam) and FAST (MIRI), in order to end up with at least 5 groups per integration, which will help with cosmic ray removal.