---
id: 2589
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "NIRISS/SOSS  NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Olivia Lim"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 53.7
program_title: "Atmospheric Reconnaissance of the TRAPPIST-1 Planets"
type: "GO"
---
# 2589 - Atmospheric Reconnaissance of the TRAPPIST-1 Planets
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2589
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label       | Observing Template                        | Science Target  |
| :---------- | :---------------------------------------- | :-------------- |
| TRAPPIST-1b | NIRISS Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy | (1) TRAPPIST-1  |
| TRAPPIST-1b | NIRISS Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy | (1) TRAPPIST-1  |
| TRAPPIST-1c | NIRISS Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy | (1) TRAPPIST-1  |
| TRAPPIST-1c | NIRISS Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy | (1) TRAPPIST-1  |
| TRAPPIST-1g | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series       | (1) TRAPPIST-1  |
| TRAPPIST-1g | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series       | (1) TRAPPIST-1  |
| TRAPPIST-1g | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series       | (1) TRAPPIST-1  |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose a medium, early-release program to secure 8 transits of the Earth-sized exoplanets TRAPPIST-1 (T-1) b, c, g, and h using NIRSpec and NIRISS, that is, 2 transits of each of the planets b and c with NIRISS, and 2 transits of each of the planets g, and h with NIRSpec. We aim to 1) provide the community with the earliest possible data set for the atmospheric reconnaissance of all T-1 planets by complementing the GTO to prepare for a more ambitious legacy T-1 program, 2) characterize and assess the level of stellar contamination caused by the transit light source effect associated with unocculted spots, and 3) quantitatively compare the performance of NIRSpec and NIRISS for relatively faint targets like T-1. Considering state-of-the-art atmospheric models of T-1 planets, the proposed observations should detect/rule out several baseline model atmospheres for all planets and may enable the detection of CO2 and H2O on T-1b and c and CO2 and O3 on T-1g and h, given some specific atmospheric compositions. The wavelength coverage of NIRISS and NIRSpec can determine the nature of the stellar contamination if present (cold/hot spots). We will also take advantage of NIRISS' higher spectral resolution (and non-saturation) to probe temperature-sensitive stellar lines to further quantify the nature and level of contamination. The two-instrument strategy will provide a balanced data set of the T-1 planets to assess the relative performance of both instruments in terms of non-linearity, intra-pixel sensitivity, and slit loss/finite subarray effects. No proprietary period is requested for this program, the bulk of which can be scheduled early in Cycle 1.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

**OBSERVING DESCRIPTION**
We propose to observe the following events.

2 transits of TRAPPIST-1b (4.39 h/visit) with NIRISS SOSS, substrip 256, readout mode NISRAPID, Ngroup = 24, Nint = 115
2 transits of TRAPPIST-1c (4.62 h/visit) with NIRISS SOSS, substrip 256, readout mode NISRAPID, Ngroup = 24, Nint = 121
2 transits of TRAPPIST-1g (4.95 h/visit) with NIRSpec BOTS Prism/Clear, subarray 512, readout mode NRSRAPID, Ngroup = 6, Nint = 11117
2 transits of TRAPPIST-1h (5.09 h/visit) with NIRSpec BOTS Prism/Clear, subarray 512, readout mode NRSRAPID, Ngroup = 6, Nint = 11417

Special requirements:

- For all observations:
-- All observations are transits, and are thus time series observations that require No Parallel. We also provide the timing requirement "phase" for each planet, based on the parameters given by the ExoCTK Phase Constraint Calculator, with planetary parameters from Agol et al. (2020) and the default window size of 1 hour.

- For NIRISS observations:
-- For the special requirements "Aperture PA range", we used the ExoCTK Contamination & Visibility Calculator and constrained the PA to have 0% contamination in orders 1 and 2. We only provided PA ranges where the target is visible. In some cases, the PA range that we provided slightly exceeds (by ~1 degree) the target visibility range. We do this to avoid further constraining the overall visibility range; in the end, observations will only be possible at the *intersection* of all constraints and therefore our ~1 degree excess will not count as a visible range.