---
id: 2593
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Allison Strom  Co-PI: Gwen Rudie"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "39.2"
program_title: "CECILIA: A Direct-method Metallicity Calibration for Cosmic Noon through the Epoch of Reionization"
type: "GO"
---
# 2593 - CECILIA: A Direct-method Metallicity Calibration for Cosmic Noon through the Epoch of Reionization
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2593
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                      | Observing Template                 | Science Target                            |
| :------------------------- | :--------------------------------- | :---------------------------------------- |
| PA=19.3: red-A, new C      | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy   | (15) Q2343-22J7-TAJ10-WBS-CONJ28-M25      |

## ABSTRACT

Tracing the build-up of metals over cosmic time is a key science goal of JWST, but the primary diagnostics of chemical abundances are indirect and currently without suitable calibrations at high redshifts. Various "strong line" metallicity indicators that work well in the local universe produce conflicting predictions at z~2-3 because they rely on intrinsic correlations among the physical conditions in galaxies' star-forming regions and their massive stars, both of which are significantly different in the early universe. This program uses NIRSPec to provide a new calibration sample of galaxy spectra to characterize these intrinsic correlations in situ at z=2. The proposed observations will enable "direct" electron-temperature-based measurements of gas-phase metallicities as well as independent estimates of the hardness of the stellar ionizing fields. In turn, these data will enable the re-calibration of strong-line metallicity estimators and improve the interpretation of photoionization models at high redshift. In contrast to other methods of calibrating these relationships, the [SIII]6312+[OII]7320,30 method proposed here is efficient over a broad parameter space of galaxy properties, including at high metallicities where current methods disagree, and it is uniquely achievable using JWST. The proposed sample includes galaxies selected using multiple methods over a wide range in stellar mass to maximize the applicability of the resulting relations to diverse galaxies across cosmic time. The outcome of this proposal will be tools that can be used to determine chemical abundances for thousands of future objects observed by JWST from z=2 to the Epoch of Reionization at z>6.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

CECILIA uses JWST/NIRSpec to measure multiple faint auroral and strong nebular emission lines in the rest-optical spectra of a sample of ~25 galaxies at z~2-3. These measurements will be used to re-calibrate metallicity diagnostics for all z>2 galaxies. A single MSA configuration is used to obtain deep spectra using G235M and G395M. To maximize the number of high-priority targets that meet the centering criteria in the final configuration, CECILIA requires a restricted list of viable position angles. Here we provide a list in terms of priority. The three highest priority PAs, in descending order are 15, 205, 203. The next rank of priority for PAs are 5, 202, 27, 28, 29. The lowest priority PAs that still meet the scientific goals of the program are 221, 208, 206, 21, 25, 20, 211, 215, and 210.

Targets are selected from the Keck Baryonic Structure Survey (KBSS) to have spectroscopic redshifts that place all of the required emission lines on the detector in both bands. Galaxies are prioritized on the basis of small sizes, large star-formation rates, and/or high nebular [OIII]5007 line fluxes measured from existing ground-based spectra, all of which increase the ease of detection of faint emission lines. Limiting line fluxes are determined by considering (1) line flux predictions from photoionization models designed to reconcile the rest-UV-optical spectra of z~2-3 galaxies and (2) typical physical sizes (median semi-major axis = 0.26" and an axis ratio of b/a = 0.6) and orientation relative to the MSA slitlets assuming the “midpoint" centering constraint. The proposed observations assume 3 shutter slitlets and 3 nod positions within the slit. To achieve the science goals of the program requires a total ~29.5 hours in G235M, with 20 groups/integration, 6 integrations/exposure, and 4 exposures at each of the 3 nod positions. A total of 1.1 hours is needed in G395M, with 9 groups/integration, 2 integrations/exposure, and 1 exposure at each of the 3 nod positions.