---
id: 2594
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/BOTS  NIRISS/SOSS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Jessica Spake  Co-PI: Zafar Rustamkulov"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 16.6
program_title: "The Twin Paradox: Assessing Planetary Radius Evolution with a CH4 Thermometer"
type: "GO"
---
# 2594 - The Twin Paradox: Assessing Planetary Radius Evolution with a CH4 Thermometer
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2594
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label              | Observing Template                  | Science Target |
| :----------------- | :---------------------------------- | :------------- |
| G395M Transit      | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series   | (1) HATS-72    |
| SOSS Transit       | NIRISS Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy | (1) HATS-72    |

---

## ABSTRACT

What sets the radius of a planet? Even at a given mass and equilibrium temperature, gas giants have a broad spread in radius, and it is unclear under which circumstances thermal evolution; migrational and mass-loss history; or composition is the dominant controller of a planet's radius. Studies of individual planet atmospheres can help. Recently, Fortney et al. (2020) showed that atmospheric CH4/H2O and CH4/CO2 abundance ratios are probes of interior temperatures of moderately-irradiated exoplanets (Teq~750K). This “CH4 thermometer” can be used to infer whether a hot interior is responsible for an inflated planet, and it can also measure vertical atmospheric mixing - which is currently unconstrained for most exoplanets. We propose to test these theories for the first time on the only two appropriate planetary twins available: WASP-107b and HATS-72b. They both have the same mass (0.12MJ), stellar type (K5/6), and equilibrium temperatures (750K), but HATS-72b's radius is significantly smaller, making it twice as dense as WASP-107b. With only two transit observations of HATS-72b with NIRISS and NIRSpec, we can measure CH4, H2O, CO and CO2 abundances to 0.2 dex, which we would compare to GTO observations of WASP-107b, implying a colder interior. As HATS-72b is significantly older, it is expected to show stronger CH4 features and so comparing the CH4/H2O and CH4/CO abundance ratios between these two planets will give direct insight into their internal temperatures and the evolutionary history of exoplanets.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We calculated the optimal detector readout patters and groups per integration using STScI's ExoCTK (https://exoctk.stsci.edu) and the official JWST ETC (https://jwst.etc.stsci.edu/). The integrations per exposure required to cover both transit events and the and signal-to-noise ratios achieved on the exoplanet transmission spectra were calculated using PandEXO (https://exoctk.stsci.edu/pandexo/).

HATS-72 is a high proper motion star. We cross-checked the Simbad proper motions against the Gaia DR2 values.

NIRSpec G395H SNR: we will use the NIRSpec G395H/F290LP, using the 1.6”×1.6” fixed slit aperture with the Bright Object Time Series (BOTS) mode optimized for transit exoplanets enabling high photometric precision time-series spectroscopy. The SUB2048 subarray will be used to improve duty cycles and capture the full 2.8 to 5.1 µm range at a resolution of R~3000. We will use the NRSRAPID readout pattern, with the groups and integrations optimized using PandEXO. HATS-72b is moderately bright (J=10.4), so we will use 50 groups/integration and 500 integrations, which results in a transmission-spectrum precision of 30ppm per 0.02microns.

NIRISS SOSS SNR: we will use the NIRISS GR700XD with the SUBSTRIP256 subarray, which provides broad 0.6-2.8 µm coverage at a R~700. NISRAPID with 5 groups and 350 integrations. For our target (J=10.4) we will reach a transmission-spectrum precision of 30ppm per 0.01m for NIRISS. The ExoCTK tool (https://exoctk.stsci.edu/contam_visibility) indicates that our target will be observable free of contamination.

We calculate the SNR of the acquisition image using ETC approximating the F480M bandpass magnitude as the ALLWISE W2 magnitude (9.4) and find an SNR > 100 for 19 groups per integration.

We request an accompanying GR700XD+F277W observation in order to decontaminate the overlapping orders along the trace. We use the NIRISS SOSS recommended strategy of 5 integrations per group (the same as the GR700XD/CLEAR observations), and 10 integrations total (as recommended by the User Documentation).