---
id: 2609
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging  NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: David Nidever  Co-PIs: Karoline Gilbert and Erik Tollerud"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "14.9"
program_title: "Searching for the Alpha-Abundance Bimodality in the M31 Disk"
type: "GO"
---
# 2609 - Searching for the Alpha-Abundance Bimodality in the M31 Disk
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2609
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label              | Observing Template          | Science Target                     |
| :----------------- | :-------------------------- | :--------------------------------- |
| NIRCam preimaging  | NIRCam Imaging              | (6) M31-NIRCAM-PREIMAGING          |
| NIRCam preimaging  | NIRCam Imaging              | (6) M31-NIRCAM-PREIMAGING          |
| M71 test68         | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (13) M71-NEWCATALOG-GAIAEDR3       |
| IC166 test64       | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (12) IC166-NEWCATALOG-GAIAEDR3     |
| NGC6791 all2       | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (11) NGC6791-NEWCATALOG-GAIAEDR3   |
| NGC6791 plan8      | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (11) NGC6791-NEWCATALOG-GAIAEDR3   |
| M31-FINAL-LONG     | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (14) M31-FINAL-MSATA+TARGETS       |

---

## ABSTRACT

The recent era of large, ground-based abundance surveys has unraveled the chemical structures of our Milky Way galaxy. The most striking abundance feature is the alpha-abundance bimodality. The low-alpha stars are younger (1-8 Gyr) while the high-alpha stars are older (8-12 Gyr) and have a thicker distribution. There are a number of different models that attempt to explain this chemical feature, but so far none have been strongly favored by the data. However, they do make different predictions about the prevalence of the alpha-bimodality in Milky Way-mass galaxies. Therefore, we propose to take NIRSpec MSA medium-resolution (R=2700), high-S/N observations of ~130 red giant branch stars in the M31 disk with which we will measure precise metallicity and alpha-abundances (to ~0.03 dex) and search for an alpha-bimodality. These first precise elemental abundances in the M31 disk will double our sample of MW-mass galaxies with which to compare and constraint the models. This will allow us to take a big step forward in our understanding of the most important chemical process at work in our galaxy. In addition, we will use the abundance information, in combination with accurate star formation histories from the PHAT survey, to probe the chemical evolution of the M31 disk in more detail using one-zone chemical evolution models that will allow us to constrain the star formation efficiency, inflow and outflow rates, and initial mass function. This pilot program will demonstrate the utility of NIRSpec for obtaining individual elemental abundances to explore the chemical enrichment of stellar populations lying well beyond the Milky Way in the Local Group.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Overall, our goal is to obtain medium-resolution high-S/N NIRSpec spectra of ~130 RGB stars in the M31 disk to measure precise metallicity and alpha-element abundances to search for the alpha-bimodality that is seen clearly in the Milky Way's disk.

**M31 NIRSpec MSA observations:**
We will observe stars at the tip of the M31 disk giant branch (18.7<F160W<20.0) in Brick19 of the PHAT catalog which is at a radius slightly farther out than the equivalent of the solar circle in M31. We will use the G140H/F100LP grism/filter setup that provides medium-resolution (R=2700) spectra in the 0.9-1.8 micron wavelength range. A setup with single shutter slits provides ~130 RGB stars in one configuration. In five hours of exposure time (100 groups per integration, 2 integrations per exposure, and 6 dither positions, with the NRSIRS2RAPID readout pattern), a S/N of 100 per pixel can be obtained for the stars at the tip of the giant branch. Monte Carlo simulations with a grid of synthetic spectra indicate that these spectra can provide abundance precision of 0.03 dex in [Fe/H] and 0.02 dex in [alpha/Fe], enough to discern the Milky Way's alpha-bimodality.

**Cluster calibration MSA observations:**
We will obtain NIRspec MSA observations with the identical setup (G140H/F100LP) of three Milky Way star cluster with ground based literature abundance measurements. The clusters M71 ([Fe/H]=-0.8, 26 stars), IC166 ([Fe/H]=-0.10, 13 stars), and NGC6791 ([Fe/H]=+0.35, 15 stars) span the expected metallicities of the M31 disk stars and will allow us to validate, and if necessary, calibrate our abundances. We will use 2 shutter slitlets with nodding and observe each cluster with a single configuration for 350 seconds (5 groups per integration, 2 integrations per exposure, 2 nod positions, with the NRSIRS2RAPID readout pattern). These observations provide S/N=140 spectra for the well-studied cluster stars (H~13th magnitude).

**NIRCam pre-imaging observations:**
By the time the JWST observations will have been taken, over ten years will have passed since the PHAT HST observations were taken. Therefore, we require NIRCam preimaging observations to obtain reliable astrometry for targeting and acquisition. We will use the FULLBOX 8NIRSPEC dither pattern and use the F150W short filter and F277W longer filter and expose for 161 seconds (5 groups per integration, 1 integrations per exposure, 8 dithers, with the BRIGHT1 readout pattern). These data will also be used in combination with the PHAT observations to derive precise proper motions for the M31 disk and halo stars.