---
id: 2640
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: William Best"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "9.4/3.8"
program_title: "A Census to the Bottom of the IMF in Westerlund 2: Atmospheres, Disks, Accretion, and Demographics"
type: "GO"
---
# 2640 - A Census to the Bottom of the IMF in Westerlund 2: Atmospheres, Disks, Accretion, and Demographics
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2640
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                                                                     | Observing Template             | Science Target                     |
| :------------------------------------------------------------------------ | :----------------------------- | :--------------------------------- |
| Faint PRISM w/ APA Dist Core Plan 2, Bright PRISM + grisms w/ APA Dist Core Plan 2 | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (3) WESTERLUND2-DIST-CORE-FULL |

---

## ABSTRACT

Young brown dwarfs (BDs) and planetary-mass objects (PMOs) offer powerful tests of the universality of the IMF, the frequency and timescale of planet formation, and the typical atmospheric properties (and range of their variations) for analogs of directly-imaged and transiting planets, all at extremes (protostellar mass, disk mass, insolation) where models are most strained. Most known PMOs are in nearby sparse populations (including GTO targets with exquisite data), but these regions are small (with few PMOs) and spread out (limiting multiplexing). Given JWST's superb sensitivity, there is not such a premium on close and bright; value instead comes from source density. Distant, dense clusters offer more and denser targets, and HST has revealed them just in time for carefully optimized JWST follow-up.

We propose a highly multiplexed NIRSpec+NIRCam pilot program for young BDs and PMOs, targeting 1 pointing in the young (1-2 Myr), massive (30,000 members), and dense (R~8 arcmin) Westerlund 2 cluster. We propose NIRSpec/MOS spectra of known young members (prism for 94 faint BDs and PMOs and 37 brighter BDs, plus grism for 27) to measure Teff, gravity, accretion from emission lines, and disks from IR excess. We also propose parallel NIRCam imaging in 12 filters (for SEDs, water bands indicating low Teff, and emission lines) to seek the very bottom of the IMF (2 MJup) and measure Teff, accretion, and disks. In summary, our program will deliver a large and robust census of the lowest-mass objects, providing a new view of the IMF, disks, planet formation, and the atmospheres of direct analogs to the direct-imaged and transiting planets that drive much of JWST's key science.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose a highly-multiplexed NIRSpec+NIRCam pilot program for young low-mass stars, brown dwarfs (BDs) and planetary mass objects (PMOs), targeting 1 pointing in the young (1-2 Myr), massive (30,000 members), and high-angular density (R~8 arcmin) Westerlund 2 cluster.

We propose NIRSpec/MOS spectra of candidate cluster members:
- Prism spectra for 94 BDs and PMOs and 37 brighter BDs
- G140M/F100LP and G395M/F290LP grism spectra for 27 brighter BDs
With these we will measure Teff, gravity, mass, accretion from emission lines, disks from IR excess, and constrain the IMF down to ~10 MJup.

We propose coordinated parallel NIRCam imaging of an adjacent field in Westerlund2 in 12 filters:
- F115W, F162M, F210M, F300M, F335M, F360M, F444W (for SEDs and consistency with GTO programs targeting substellar objects in nearby star-forming regions)
- F140M and F182M (centered on water absorption bands indicating low Teff)
- F187N, F405N, and F466N (for accretion-driven emission lines)
With these we will seek the very bottom of the IMF (~2 MJup) and measure Teff, accretion, and disks.