---
id: 2659
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: John Weaver"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "13.6"
program_title: "Beasts in the Bubbles: Characterizing ultra-luminous Galaxies at Cosmic Dawn"
type: "GO"
---
# 2659 - Beasts in the Bubbles: Characterizing ultra-luminous Galaxies at Cosmic Dawn
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2659
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template         | Science Target      |
| :---- | :------------------------- | :------------------ |
|       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy   | (1) COSMOS-441697   |
|       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy   | (2) COSMOS-564423   |
|       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy   | (3) COSMOS-978062   |
|       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy   | (4) COSMOS-852845   |
|       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy   | (5) COSMOS-1356755  |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose restframe UV and optical spectroscopy to confirm redshifts and measure star-formation rates, stellar masses, and dust extinction for the five most luminous galaxies at 9<z<10 over two square degrees of the COSMOS survey. The unique combination of a wide-field near-infrared imaging coupled with new ultra-deep optical and infrared data makes this the most secure sample of 9<z<10 galaxy candidates currently available. However, these objects are too rare to be found by very deep, but smaller surveys with JWST, and the serendipitous discovery of even one such galaxy outside of COSMOS is unlikely from the entirety of planned GTO and ERS programs. These massive, luminous galaxies, seen only 500 million years after the Big Bang, are ideal tracers of the primordial dark matter structures from which they formed and grew. However, their mere existence at these early times challenges the current paradigm of early galaxy formation and evolution. Thus, it is essential to confirm their high redshift nature and reveal the means by which these remarkable cosmic beasts so rapidly built up their stellar mass.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This proposal focuses on a sample of five secure 9<z<10 massive and UV luminous galaxies located in the COSMOS field (R.A., decl. = 10:00:28.600, +02:12:21.00). We utilize the spatially-resolved spectroscopic abiliy of the NIRSpec IFU to measure the UV and optical continuum and their associated emission lines. These sources are unresolved in ground-based imaging, and so In the case that these sources are actually multiiple galaxies the IFU can capture all sources and provide low-resolution imaging, simultaneously. To achieve our scientific goals, we require 08h07m with the NIRspec IFU instrument, with PRISM/CLEAR filter. We observe for a total of 29180 s, split into 500 groups, 20 integrations, and 20 exposures. We will use the NRSIRS2RAPID readout pattern with a LARGE SPARSE-CYCLE DITHER with positions 1-4. The total requested time, including overheads, is 48816 s or 13.6 hours.