---
id: 2662
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging  MIRI/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Peter Zeidler"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "12.3/1.4"
program_title: "NGC 602 in the SMC, As Seen by Webb – Progressive Star Formation under Extraordinary Conditions?"
type: "GO"
---
# 2662 - NGC 602 in the SMC, As Seen by Webb – Progressive Star Formation under Extraordinary Conditions?
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2662
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label             | Observing Template | Science Target      |
| :---------------- | :----------------- | :------------------ |
| NIRCam            | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) NGC-602         |
| MIRI              | MIRI Imaging       | (1) NGC-602         |
| MIRI-background   | MIRI Imaging       | (2) MIRI-background |

## ABSTRACT

NGC 602 is an extraordinarily interesting young star cluster, because it is located in a very low-density, low-metallicity region in the SMC Bridge, but still has formed a remarkable content of stars (10^3 Solar masses), and hosts multiple OB stars, similar to Orion. Spitzer observations have revealed a number of Young Stellar Objects (YSOs) embedded in the surrounding gas and dust ridges, but the Spitzer spatial resolution did not allow for a direct comparison with existing Hubble images. We are proposing to exploit NIRCam and MIRI's exquisite sensitivity and resolution to a) conduct a census of the YSOs in the cluster region, b) establish if the central OB stars are driving star formation (SF) into the surrounding HII region, and c) probe how the OB winds influence the disk-bearing population of pre-main-sequence (PMS) stars found by Hubble. Only the unprecedented sensitivity and resolution of Webb will allow us, for the first time, to observe ALL YSOs down to 1 Solar mass and to characterize protoplanetary disks of PMS stars down to the hydrogen-burning limit, in a cluster outside the Milky Way (MW). We will investigate how efficiently stars continue to form in the surrounding gas and dust cloud, which might lead to an extended period of SF even after the main cluster has started to disperse. We will study how protoplanetary disks around low-mass stars evolve in close proximity to the OB stars in a low-metallicity environment, where winds are less powerful than in our own Galaxy. By comparing the results with similar clusters in the MW, we will add crucial information to the current debate on how star and cluster formation is affected by local environmental conditions.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The goal of this proposal is to discover and characterize the young stellar objects (YSOs) emerging in the gas and dust ridges surrounding the star cluster NGC 602 in the Small Magellanic Cloud (SMC). We will investigate, if the central OB stars are driving star formation into the surrounding HII region, and probe how the OB winds influence the disk-bearing pre-main-sequence stars found by Hubble. We are proposing to use NIRCam and MIRI's exquisite sensitivity and resolution to: a) conduct a census of the YSOs in the cluster region b) establish whether the central OB stars are driving star formation into the surrounding HII region, and c) probe how the OB winds influence the disk-bearing population of pre-main-sequence stars found by Hubble.

We propose to observe the gas and dust ridges using NIRCam and MIRI to detect and characterize all YSOs down to one Solar mass and to probe the PMS stars down to the hydrogen-burning limit. The existing HST photometry and 8 NIRCam filters: F115W, F140M, F150W, F210M, F277W, F335M, F356W, F480M, and 5 MIRI filters: F770W, F1000W, F1130W, F1500W, F2550W will trace key features in the objects' spectral energy distribution like the stellar photosphere, PAHs, and silicate dust and water ice bands. This provides the necessary information to identify, characterize, and determine the evolutionary stage of the YSOs; it will also distinguish the reddest objects from background galaxies and evolved SMC field stars.

The NIRCam observations will be executed with MIRI in parallel to estimate the background contamination in our primary observations. No NIRCam parallels are need and the background contamination will be estimated from the primary observations due its larger field of view.

These observations will be taken with a 2x2 NIRCam mosaic with a 3-POINT-WITH-MIRI-F770W sub-pixel dither pattern. The mosaic substitutes the primary dithers. The MIRI observations will be executed with a 2x2 mosaic with a 4-POINT-SETS dither pattern to cover the full extent of the young star cluster NGC 602.