---
id: 2667
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/LRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Hannah Wakeford"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 9.2
program_title: "Good Vibrations: Directly Measuring Exoplanet Aerosol Compositions with MIRI Spectroscopy"
type: "GO"
---
# 2667 - Good Vibrations: Directly Measuring Exoplanet Aerosol Compositions with MIRI Spectroscopy
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2667
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                   | Observing Template                | Science Target |
| :---------------------- | :-------------------------------- | :------------- |
| HD209_MIRI_transit      | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy  | (1) HD-209458  |
| HD209_MIRI_transit      | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy  | (1) HD-209458  |

## ABSTRACT

Aerosols control the energy budget of an atmosphere and how much light is reflected, absorbed, and re-radiated. Aerosols in exoplanet atmospheres are commonly defined as either clouds (formed via condensation) or hazes (formed via photochemical reactions). The effect of aerosols as scattering in the UV-optical and muting of gas phase abundances in the near-IR has been observed in transmission spectra from giant hot Jupiters down to sub-Neptunes. However, aerosols are not all bad news for exoplanet spectra. The composition of aerosols directly measured in the IR, as condensate clouds or photochemical haze, will inform the temperature and pressure structure of the atmosphere. Without direct measurements of the aerosol composition, particle size, and abundance, we cannot fully account for the gas phase composition, the thermal structure, or the dynamical mixing in giant exoplanet atmospheres.

We will measure the first direct evidence of aerosols in the atmosphere of an exoplanet by observing the vibrational-mode absorption from sub-micron sized particles in the atmosphere of HD 209458b with MIRI LRS. With these observations, we will be able to constrain the particle size of the aerosols to less than an order of magnitude. This will enable us to constrain the magnitude of dynamical mixing in the atmosphere needed to produce such particle sizes, which in turn informs the role of mixing in the gas phase chemistry. In just a single transit, these high precision observations will not only distinguish between aerosols composed of cloud condensates and organic hazes, but also examine the role of aerosols in the radiative transfer, dynamics, and chemistry of exoplanet atmospheres

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will use the MIRI instrument with LRS in Slitless Prism mode to measure the transit of the hot Jupiter HD 209458b. This is a time series observation and as such no parallel observation can be scheduled during the course of our observation. We will not conduct any dithers on our target and will use FAST readout mode. Our target star is bright, K = 6.3, requiring an optimum number of 5 groups per integration with a total of 32165 integrations to cover our whole observing time. In total we will observe our target for 7.1 hours including readout times but excluding observatory overheads. This time includes needed stellar baseline measurements before and after transit as well as covering the entire transit duration to increase the precision of our measurements and ensure robust interpretation of the systematics and background. We additionally add an hour of observing time to account for a 60 minute window for the start of observations with JWST. The start window was calculated using the ExoCTK phase calculator and allows for a full hour for ease of scheduling.