---
id: 2674
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Pablo Arrabal Haro"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "15.2/7.8"
program_title: "Environmental Effects on Galaxy Evolution in a z=5.2 Proto-cluster"
type: "GO"
---
# 2674 - Environmental Effects on Galaxy Evolution in a z=5.2 Proto-cluster
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2674
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                   | Observing Template                | Science Target                   |
| :---------------------- | :-------------------------------- | :------------------------------- |
| P1_final_MSATA_0x0 0.01 | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (1) P1-GO-2674-FINAL-CAT         |
| P2_final_MSATA_0x0 0.01 | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (2) P2-GO-2674-FINAL-CAT         |
| P3_final_MSATA_0x0 0.01 | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (3) P3-GO-2674-FINAL-CAT         |
| P4_final_MSATA_0x0 0.01 | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (4) P4-GO-2674-FINAL-CAT         |

---

## ABSTRACT

Galaxy clusters are the most massive gravitationally bound structures in the Universe and they play a key role in our understanding of structure formation and galaxy evolution. The particular conditions of these high density environments can have a significant effect on the evolution of galaxies. Previous studies have reported systematic differences in SFR, age and mass between field galaxies and galaxies in large clusters at z<2.5. However, we know little about how overdense environments affect the evolution of galaxies at z > 3.

We propose to use 15 h of NIRSpec and NIRCam parallel observations to measure optical nebular line emission properties for a well-defined sample of proto-cluster galaxies at z=5.2. Our target sample contains 11 spectroscopically confirmed members of the proto-cluster and 15 new candidates with accurate photometric redshifts, as well as 66 other field galaxies at similar redshifts, in order to: 1) use emission line diagnostics and stellar population modeling to directly compare properties of galaxies in high- and lower-density environments for the first time at this early cosmic epoch; 2) substantially increase the number of confirmed proto-cluster members, allowing a detailed characterization of the dynamical state of the overdensity, the identification of internal sub-structures through the analysis of the velocity dispersion, and application of cluster evolution formalism to trace the expected evolution of this large proto-cluster with redshift, and its eventual end as a Coma-like cluster at z=0; and 3) compare the Ly-alpha escape fraction for z~5 galaxies in and out of the proto-cluster environment.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The main goal of our observation is the detection of [OIII]4959,5007 and H-alpha for a well-defined sample of members of aproto-cluster at z~5.2, with the expectancy of also detecting H-beta, [NII]6548,6583 and/or [SII]6716,6731 in some of the brightest targets.

Using APT and the MSA Preparation Tool (MPT), we tested all the different possible aperture position angles (APAs) and found an optimal orientation of 330 deg.
This optimization is specially relevant for the two first MSA configurations of our program. For the other two pointings, we can obtain similar yields with different APAs. Nevertheless, since the yields of these last two pointings are good for an APA of 330 deg, we decided to keep the same angle for all the MSA configurations to avoid splitting the available observing dates and to reduce overheads during the observations.

With the observing strategy here proposed, we will observe a total of 92 high-z galaxies: 15 new proto-cluster candidates at z~5.2; 11 spectroscopically confirmed proto-cluster members; 23 field galaxies at z=4.9-6.48 for which we will observe both H-beta, [OIII]4959,5007 and H-alpha and 43 additional field "fillers" at z>3.4 for which we can observe H-alpha.

The requested exposure times guarantees that we will observe H-alpha at SNR>5 with the G395M/290LP NIRSpec configuration for all the proto-cluster objects.

Additionally, the parallel use of F405N and F410M NIRCam imaging will appropriately sample H-alpha at z=5.14-5.21, allowing the identification of yet more possible proto-cluster members in the vicinity of the overdensity. On the short wavelenght filter, we will use a combination of F187N and F182M to tangentially target [OII]3726,3729 at z~4.05, corresponding with the redshift of another known galaxy overdensity in GOODS-N.