---
id: 2708
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/LRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Zach Berta-Thompson"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 17.8
program_title: "The Thermal Emission Spectrum of the Closest M Dwarf Transiting Rocky Planet"
type: "GO"
---
# 2708 - The Thermal Emission Spectrum of the Closest M Dwarf Transiting Rocky Planet
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2708
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label   | Observing Template             | Science Target |
| :------ | :----------------------------- | :------------- |
| Visit 1 | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) LTT1445A   |
| Visit 1 | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) LTT1445A   |
| Visit 1 | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) LTT1445A   |

---

## ABSTRACT

The rocky planets in our Solar System each have their own complicated stories to tell, and we have decades of data observing them up close. Yet, looking at the innermost worlds of Mercury and Venus, we still don't have complete answers to simple questions. How much bigger would Mercury need to be, in order for it to have retained an atmosphere? How much more closely to the Sun could Venus orbit, without its thick atmosphere eroding into space? Observations of exoplanets can help answer these questions. Both thanks to exoplanet discovery efforts that have provided worlds starting to resemble those our Solar System and thanks to Webb for providing the long-wavelength sensitivity needed to observe these cool planets, we can start to directly observe planets that resemble our own. Here, we propose to use MIRI/LRS to observe the emission spectrum of the exoplanet LTT1445Ab and use its dayside temperature to determine whether or not it has an atmosphere. At mere 6.9pc away, the LTT1445 system is the closest M dwarf know to host a transiting planet, and determining whether or not it has an atmosphere provides crucial context for the decade of exoplanetary science ahead. This work would provide valuable insight to atmospheric escape from rocky planets both within the Solar System and beyond.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We plan to observe three eclipses of LTT1445Ab the the MIRI/LRS. We will use the SLITLESSPRISM subarray and FASTR1 readout mode, with 5 groups/integration. This strategy reaches 80% of saturation at the peak of the spectrum.

The total time for the first eclipse visit is 6.06 hours; after the recommended 0.5 hours of detector settling time at the start of the observation (which was broadly confirmed by the TSO commissioning dataset showing a ~20 minute ramp), this leaves 5.56 hours centered on the predicted time of eclipse for circular orbit. The total time for the later two visits is 3.76 hours each, leaving 3.26 hours after settling time. The predicted eclipse duration is 1.38 hours, leaving sufficient out-of-eclipse time in all visits to characterize the out-of-eclipse baseline flux level.

The star is bright, so the photon noise of the observations could exceed the the often-quoted 50ppm systematic noise floor for MIRI observations. Again, we would love to consult with the instrument team experts after commissioning to identify any possible nudges we can make to the program scheduling to optimize performance and correct this noise ass best we can.