---
id: 2722
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 1"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/BOTS  MIRI/LRS  NIRISS/SOSS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Nikku Madhusudhan"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 20.4
program_title: "Chemical Disequilibrium in a Temperate Sub-Neptune"
type: "GO"
---
# 2722 - Chemical Disequilibrium in a Temperate Sub-Neptune
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2722
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label      | Observing Template                   | Science Target |
| :--------- | :----------------------------------- | :------------- |
| G395H      | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series    | (1) K2-18      |
| MIRI       | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy     | (1) K2-18      |
| MIRI       | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy     | (1) K2-18      |
| NIRISS     | NIRISS Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy | (1) K2-18      |

## ABSTRACT

One of the major developments in the past year has been the first detection of H2O in the atmosphere of the mini-Neptune K2-18b orbiting in the habitable-zone of its host star, with an equilibrium temperature of ~300 K. The observations revealed an H2-rich atmosphere with strong absorption from H2O, but also a surprising paucity of methane (CH4) and ammonia (NH3). Given the low temperatures in the atmosphere, CH4 and NH3 are expected to be the prominent carriers of carbon and nitrogen in a H2-rich atmosphere. The non-detections of CH4 and NH3, therefore, suggest strong thermochemical disequilibrium in the atmosphere of K2-18b, similar to the "missing methane problem" in other low-mass planets which is one of the longest-standing conundrums in exoplanetary atmospheres. Given its low temperature and high observability, K2-18b serves as the perfect test case for investigating this problem and for understanding physical and chemical processes in exoplanetary atmospheres in the temperate regime. We propose to conduct unprecedented observations of K2-18b to resolve this long-standing puzzle. Using JWST broadband transmission spectroscopy with NIRISS, NIRSpec and MIRI, our observations aim to make the first detections of CH4 and NH3 in K2-18b and place unprecedented constraints on chemical disequilibrium in its atmosphere.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will observe the temperate sub-Neptune K2-18b in transmission with NIRISS, NIRSpec and MIRI, dedicating one primary transit to each instrument.
We will obtain a combined transmission spectrum spanning a wavelength range of 1-8µm.
We will use NIRISS in SOSS mode with the GR700XD grism and the SUBSTRIP96 subarray, obtaining the first spectral order.
With NIRSpec in BOTS mode we will use the G395H grating and the SUB2048 subarray.
MIRI's Low Resolution Spectrometer will be used in Slitless mode.