---
id: 2739
proposal_type: "ddt"
cycle: 1
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 45.4
program_title: "JWST Cycle 1 Outreach Campaign"
type: ""
---
# 2739 - JWST Cycle 1 Outreach Campaign
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2739
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                      | Observing Template | Science Target      |
| :------------------------- | :----------------- | :------------------ |
| Pillars NIRCam image       | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) M-16            |
| Pillars MIRI image         | MIRI Imaging       | (1) M-16            |
| Uranus NIRCam              | NIRCam Imaging     | (2) URANUS          |
| Uranus NIRCam repeat       | NIRCam Imaging     | (2) URANUS          |
| Neptune NIRCam             | NIRCam Imaging     | (3) NEPTUNE         |
| L1527 NIRCam image         | NIRCam Imaging     | (4) LDN-1527        |
| L1527 MIRI image           | MIRI Imaging       | (4) LDN-1527        |
| Arp 220 NIRCam image       | NIRCam Imaging     | (5) IC-4553         |
| Arp 220 MIRI image         | MIRI Imaging       | (5) IC-4553         |
| NIRCAM observation Oph Core | NIRCam Imaging     | (7) OPH-CORE        |
| NIRCAM observation Oph Core repeat | NIRCam Imaging     | (7) OPH-CORE        |
| NIRCAM observation Oph Core repeat Split off Tile-4 | NIRCam Imaging     | (8) OPH-CORE-Tile-4 |
| NIRCAM observation Oph Core repeat Split off Tile-2 | NIRCam Imaging     | (9) OPH-CORE-Tile-2 |

---

## ABSTRACT

**ABSTRACT**
We propose to obtain multi-color NIRCam and MIRI imaging of four sidereal targets (star-forming region M16, the L1527 protostar, the Arp 220 infrared galaxy, and the Helix nebula), as well as NIRCam imaging of Uranus and Neptune. This set of observations will provide imaging data for use in Public Outreach products in the first few months of Cycle 1, in the time period before the first science results from the community. The proposed observations complement those to be observed as part of the Early Release Observations, and are needed to maintain a cadence of a new imaging press release every two weeks from July 15 and through October 2022.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

**OBSERVING DESCRIPTION**
This proposal contains a set of 5 sub-programs to be used for public outreach images during the time period between the Early Release Observations (EROs) and the first community-driven science press releases anticipated to begin in October. The observations contain NIRCam and MIRI imaging, and are designed to produce high quality, high signal-to-noise products, appropriate for Public Outreach (PO) imagery.

*** Pillars of creation ***

FOV: The NIRCam image uses two mosaic tiles for coverage, and two overlapping tiles, combined with a standard dither pattern. This ensures the most uniform coverage, and is the preferred strategy for ERO observations. Thus, the NIRCam observation is set up as a 2x2 mosaic, but it is really a 2-tile, optimally dithered mosaic. The FOV is designed to encompass all three pillars. The position angle of NIRCam is not perfectly aligned, leading to a more slanted composition than seen in the classic Hubble image. A large MIRI mosaic is needed to cover all three pillars, requiring 2x3 tiles.

Filters: We use a mixture of broad and narrow-band filters to capture prominent background, dust, and gas features, as described in the PDF attachment.

Exposure parameters: We use BRIGHT1 and SHALLOW2 for broad-band and narrow-band filters, respectively. For a total of 1600s in broad filters and 2800s in narrow filters, this is consistent with public outreach image quality for star-forming regions, with enough dynamic range to reveal both bright nebulosity, as well as the background field of galaxies. The M16 core, and in particular the exposed surface of the pillars, are very bright in the mid-infrared. Hence, MIRI ramps are limited to 10 groups, adding integrations for better dynamic range.

Dither patterns: We use the 5TIGHT dither pattern for NIRCam. However, note that with the overlapping set of mosaic tiles, we actually get 10 dithers over the central 70% of the area.

Special Requirements: Limited PA range for composition. To be observed before October 1, 2022, to be available for a stop gap press release.

*** Ice giants ***

FOV: We use NIRCam B only. Offsetting by 11", 11" (15"x15" for Uranus) should ensure that the full planet disk is included within a single SW SCA for all dithers, while still providing space for detecting moons.

Filters: The observation is prioritizing dynamic range over number of filters. Hence, we use 4 NIRCam medium-band filters to enhance color contrasts, using the predicted spectra by Norwood et al. 2016.

Exposure parameters: We use two sets of exposure time. One set of filters with a short exposure time (~450s) to minimize rotation of the planet during the visit, and another deeper set (~1400s) to detect faint ring structure and moons. There will still be some rotation visible for unresolved features between the short filter sets (but not within a dither pattern), which may have to be corrected for in post processing. Together, this should still provide very high SNR detections of planet features, rings, and moons for a high dynamic range composite.

Dither patterns: We use a 5TIGHT INTRAMODULEBOX dither to support the short planetary disk exposures, while still having a square FOV for moons.

Ephemerides: We use the APT built-in ephemerides for Uranus and Neptune.

Special Requirements: Before October 1, 2022. The observations are constrained to keep the major moons separated from the planetary disk and within the FOV.

*** L1527 protostar ***

FOV: One NIRCam module, and two MIRI tiles to cover the same area.

Filters: As described in the main proposal. 6 NIRCam filters, and 3 MIRI filters.

Exposure parameters: We use the BRIGHT1 and SHALLOW2 readout patterns for broad- and narrow-band filters respectively. The L1527 nebula has somewhat lower surface brightness than some other targets (~10 MJy/sr), so exposure times a kept at, or above, ~1500s for every filter.

Dither patterns: NIRCam INTRAMODULEBOX for a square field, with roughly uniform coverage. 8 dithers for high-quality resampling and efficient hot pixel/CR rejection. MIRI uses 8 cycled dithers with the MEDIUM pattern for similar reasons. Because of the large MIRI mosaic and bright nebulosity, we only use 6 dithers per mosaic tile, trading a bit of CR rejection and imaging quality for spatial coverage.

Special Requirements: Before October 1, 2022.

***Arp 220 nearest Ultra-Luminous Infrared Galaxy (ULIRG)***

FOV: One NIRCam module, and two MIRI tiles to cover the same area.

Filters: As described in the main proposal. 6 NIRCam filters, and 4 MIRI filters.

Exposure parameters: This requires a relatively deep field, using SHALLOW2 for a total of ~1400s per filter.

Dither patterns: NIRCam INTRAMODULEBOX for a square field, with roughly uniform coverage. 5 dithers for moderate resampling and efficient hot pixel/CR rejection. MIRI uses 8 cycled dithers with the MEDIUM pattern.

Special Requirements: Before October 1, 2022.

***Oph core vista***

FOV: 2 NIRCam FULL tiles, with 2 additional tiles for overlapped dither.

Filters: As described in the main proposal. 6 NIRCam filters.

Exposure parameters: Narrow band filters use the SHALLOW2 readout pattern with 6 groups, for a total of >2000 s of exposure time per filter over most of the FOV. Broad filters

Dither patterns: We use the FULLBOX pattern with 6TIGHT dithers (multiplied by 2 for the overlapping regions between mosaic tiles). 5-10 dithers will produce high-quality resampled images across the FOV with good bad pixel and CR rejection.

Special requirement: We use a limited PA range to ensure that we obtain a well-aligned landscape of the ionized region and transition to molecular gas, as well as a field of cometary clumps.