---
id: 2750
proposal_type: "ddt"
cycle: 1
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 8
program_title: "Spectroscopic follow-up of ultra-high-z candidates in CEERS: Characterizing true z > 12 galaxies and z~4-7 interlopers in preparation for JWST Cycle 2"
type: ""
---
# 2750 - Spectroscopic follow-up of ultra-high-z candidates in CEERS: Characterizing true z > 12 galaxies and z~4-7 interlopers in preparation for JWST Cycle 2
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2750
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                      | Observing Template                     | Science Target             |
| :------------------------- | :------------------------------------- | :------------------------- |
| `90.75deg_final_0x0_0.01`  | `NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy`     | `(1) CEERS-MSA-FINAL-DD`   |
| `final 0x0 EOSA`           | `NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy`     | `(2) MSA-FINAL-CAT-MSATA`  |

---

## ABSTRACT

Through rapid analysis of early public JWST NIRCam data, several teams have submitted papers that present candidates for galaxies at remarkably high redshifts, z>12, beyond the previous reach of HST. However, independent analyses of the same Early Release Observation (ERO) and Early Release Science (ERS) data have not always yielded consistent samples or photometric redshift estimates for the same objects. There is also the risk of (and possibly evidence for) contamination of very high-z color selection by dusty galaxies at lower redshifts. This begs the question: How many z > 12 galaxies are there really?

We propose to observe for 4.9 hours using a single NIRSpec MSA pointing to spectroscopically test three of the most interesting ultra-high-z candidates discovered so far, which conveniently fall within a ~1.3 arcmin diameter sky region in public DD-ERS NIRCam images from the Cosmic Evolution Early Release Science survey (CEERS, program ID 1345). Spectroscopic confirmation (or refutation) of these candidates early in JWST Cycle 1 is vital for the research community to refine plans, strategies, and expectations for future observations in JWST Cycle 2 and beyond. This requires observations as soon as the field is next visible, hence our request for DDT. The proposed observations can be scheduled in December 2022. We waive any proprietary period, and we commit to rapid turnaround and dissemination of results in time to inform Cycle 2 proposal preparation.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The observation consists of a single standard NIRSpec MSA prism pointing (3-shutter slits, 3-nod pattern) targeting three main candidates with estimated redshifts z=14.3, z=16.7 and z~18 (possibly a z~5 interloper) plus several other z>10 candidates.

The requested exposure time of ~5 hours is intended to allow a reliable differentiation between the Lyman-alpha break of a real ultra-high-z galaxy and the Balmer break of a low-z interloper for the faintest of our three primary targets.