---
id: 2754
proposal_type: "ddt"
cycle: 1
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 5.6
program_title: "Unique Constraints on Early Dust Growth in Core-Collapse Supernovae"
type: ""
---
# 2754 - Unique Constraints on Early Dust Growth in Core-Collapse Supernovae
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2754
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                 | Observing Template | Science Target     |
| :-------------------- | :----------------- | :----------------- |
| MIRI Imaging          | MIRI Imaging       | (1) SN2021AFDX     |
| Dedicated Background  | MIRI Imaging       | (2) SN2021AFDX-BG  |

---

## ABSTRACT

On June 12, NIRCam observations of the Cartwheel galaxy (ERO 2727; PI Pontoppidan) provided a serendipitous glance at the core-collapse supernova (CCSN) 2021afdx. Three days later, complementary MIRI observations enabled the first analysis of CCSN ejecta dust using JWST observations. Probing the evolution of dust formation in CCSNe provides one of the most promising means of understanding the elevated dust levels in high-redshift galaxies, but recent work has shown >99% of CCSN ejecta dust could be very cool (<150K), requiring precision observations at >15um to understand. The rate at which CCSNe form dust and the total mass formed are therefore highly uncertain due to the relative lack of old CCSN mid-IR data, with observations and models disagreeing by 2-3 orders of magnitude. This proposal leverages the existing JWST ERO observations of a CCSN, which already reveal the highest measured dust mass at this epoch post-explosion, to tightly constrain the cool ejecta dust and provide a legacy dataset for measuring dust growth acceleration the future. This program will provide the most accurate dust constraints thus far for CCSNe before 500 days post-explosion, where the handful of existing dust measurements span 2 orders of magnitude and do not probe the cold dust component. A DD program is the only opportunity to use this fortuitous dataset to obtain these constraints, as observations ~contemporaneous with the ERO data are required for a robust analysis.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This proposal will image SN 2021axdf, SN II at z=0.03, with MIRI. The single epoch observation will consist of F1500W, F2100W, F2550W (with dedicated background) and a 4-point dither pattern.