---
id: 2756
proposal_type: "ddt"
cycle: 1
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 9.4
program_title: "Imaging and Spectroscopic Follow-up of a Supernova at Redshift z=3.47"
type: ""
---
# 2756 - Imaging and Spectroscopic Follow-up of a Supernova at Redshift z=3.47
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2756
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                    | Observing Template           | Science Target       |
| :----------------------- | :--------------------------- | :------------------- |
| NIRCam Imaging Epoch 1   | NIRCam Imaging               | (1) ABELL2744        |
| NIRCam Imaging Epoch 2   | NIRCam Imaging               | (1) ABELL2744        |
| NIRSpec Spectroscopy     | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (4) MSA-CAT-V9       |

---

## ABSTRACT

After subtracting newly acquired JWST NIRISS pre-imaging from archival HST WFC3 IR imaging of the Abell 2744 galaxy cluster field, we have identified a magnified supernova (SN) at redshift z=3.47. From F115W, F150W, and F200W imaging, which correspond approximately to rest-frame U, B, and V bands, we find that the SN's colors may be most consistent with a H-rich Type II SN, and we measure an absolute V-band magnitude of approximately -18.1. These make the SN the most distant example of a SN that is not a superluminous SN (M_V < -21 mag).

Core-collapse supernova (SN) rates from the CANDELS and CLASH surveys are in tension with inferences about the cosmic star-formation history from observations of galaxies. From our simulations, we find only p=0.08 that a SN with redshift exceeding 2 would be found in the first two galaxy-cluster JWST visits, assuming the inferred CANDELS+CLASH rates. We request NIRSpec PRISM spectroscopy to determine if the SN is a core-collapse event, and two epochs of imaging to construct its light curve. The same visits will also provide follow-up imaging and spectroscopy of a microlensing event of a highly magnified star at z=2.65.

The repeat imaging epochs will be the first to a galaxy-cluster field and the publicly available dataset will provide a new view of the transient universe.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will acquire two epochs of NIRCam follow-up imaging (F115W, F150W, F200W, F277W, F356W, and F444W) of the newly identified supernova (SN) at z=3.47, and, simultaneously, of the location of the microlensing event of a star at z=2.65. These are required to construct the light curve of the SN, since the next planned visits to the Abell 2744 will not be until late October or November, which will be a full month after discovery in the rest frame at z=3.47. The first NIRCam visit should be scheduled as soon as possible without disruption of the schedule, and second should follow approximately between the first epoch and the planned UNCOVER NIRCam visit in late October or November.

We will acquire spectroscopy of the SN, microlensing events, and z>5 galaxies as soon as possible, without disruption of the telescope schedule, using NIRSpec MSA multi-object PRISM spectroscopy.