---
id: 2758
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 29.2
program_title: "NIRSpec MSA Observations of Galaxies in a Parallel Field"
type: ""
---
# 2758 - NIRSpec MSA Observations of Galaxies in a Parallel Field
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2758
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                     | Observing Template                | Science Target          |
| :------------------------ | :-------------------------------- | :---------------------- |
| G235M-G395M-v10-5         | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy  | (5) TM M1149PAR v10 fin |

---

## ABSTRACT

The overall goal of this investigation is to study the formation and evolution of early type galaxies and their relation to their star forming progenitors. This is accomplished by obtaining NIRCam imaging data and NIRSpec multiobject MSA spectroscopy of a sample of both early and late type galaxies to determine their metallicity and, when possible, metal abundance ratios and correlate them with other global galaxy properties. The target field will be the parallel NIRCam field to the Frontier Fields cluster MACS 1149.5+2223 MSA observations we obtained during Cycle 1.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The MSA targets will be chosen once the Cycle 1 observations for GTO 1199 will be carried out as this proposal targets the NIRCam parallel field to that proposal.

[Feb 23, 2024]
In finalizing the MSA masks, we noticed that good stars are not available in the field for the given PA/position. As such, we inclded two compact galaxies that are within magnitude range of 23-25ABmag for our MSATA. MSA shutters were manually opened for two additional acquisition stars.

[Mar 25, 2024]
MSATA TA includes 8 sources. There is no manually open shutter for MSATA this time. Master background check box is on for MSATA and science observations.