---
id: 2759
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: "NIRISS/SOSS"
pi_and_co_pis: "David Lafreniere"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 10.1
program_title: "NIRISS Exploration of the Atmospheric Diversity of Transiting Exoplanets (NEAT)"
type: ""
---
# 2759 - NIRISS Exploration of the Atmospheric Diversity of Transiting Exoplanets (NEAT)
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2759
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label    | Observing Template                     | Science Target |
| :------- | :------------------------------------- | :------------- |
| transit  | NIRISS Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy | (1) L-231-32   |

---

## ABSTRACT

NEAT is a program aimed at acquiring, primarily with the JWST NIRISS SOSS mode, transit and eclipse observations of a large sample of exoplanets that span the full available range of equilibrium temperatures (300-3000 K) and masses (1 MEarth-10 MJup) for planets amenable to atmospheric characterization. Our observations will measure the abundance of the molecules and aerosols present in the exoplanets' atmosphere and determine the vertical temperature structure of the hottest targets. These results will allow us to address fundamental issues such as the formation process and formation location of these close-in planets, the presence and characteristics of particulate clouds, and non-equilibrium chemistry effects that might be at play in their atmosphere. For rocky planets in our sample we intend to place some of the first constraints on the mean molecular weight - and hence bulk composition – of their atmospheres. In particular, we will observe multiple transits of the potentially habitable earth-like planets TRAPPIST-1 d & f. For two targets, WASP-121b and LTT 9779b, we will acquire observations continuously throughout a full orbital period to constrain their temperature-pressure profile as a function of longitude and study how heat is absorbed and redistributed in their atmosphere. Most of our observations will be conducted as part of cycle 1, bur our final target, L231-32d, will be observed in cycle 2 and is the subject of this program.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will observe one transit of L231-32d using NIRISS SOSS.
A PA range constraint is used to avoid contamination from other field sources. A phase time constraint is used to time the observtion to the transit event. The out-of-transit to in-transit observing time ratio was set to 2:1.