---
id: 2763
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 6.3
program_title: "SN 1987A: The Formation and Evolution of Dust in a Supernova Explosion"
type: ""
---
# 2763 - SN 1987A: The Formation and Evolution of Dust in a Supernova Explosion
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2763
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label     | Observing Template                 | Science Target     |
| :-------- | :--------------------------------- | :----------------- |
| MRS - ALL | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) SN-1987A       |
| MRS - ALL | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) SN1987A-BKG-SE |

---

## ABSTRACT

From Supernova to Supernova Remnant, SN 1987A has given us a unique opportunity to study the mechanics of a supernova explosion and now to witness the birth of a supernova remnant. We want to understand how massive stars age and explode, how their ejecta form dust and molecules and how the blast wave from their violent explosion affects their surroundings.

The central stellar ejecta of SN 1987A are surrounded by a ring of progenitor gas and dust that has been shocked by the blast wave of the explosion, which is now leaving it and moving farther into the Interstellar Medium (ISM), which can thus be explored for the first time at high spatial and spectral resolution. Further, the ejecta are now hit by the reverse shock whose effects and evolution with time will be observed with MRS IFU spectroscopy. The inner ejecta of SN 1987A and its Equatorial Ring are known to be strongly evolving over timescales of a year, resulting in significant changes in both its flux and morphology. To monitor the rapid evolution of the ring – ejecta collision, and follow the expansion of the reverse shock into the surrounding CSM we duplicate the MRS observational setup of the JWST Cycle 1 program #1232.

In summary the Cycle 2 MRS IFU spectroscopy will measure key shocked line diagnostics that will constrain the shock physics as well as the elemental abundances in both the ring and the stellar ejecta, will provide key information about potential neutron star formation.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Using the MRS we are resolving the SN1987a ring and ejecta. A background field is observed for the MRS callibaration.