---
id: 2767
proposal_type: "ddt"
cycle: 1
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 10.3
program_title: "Imaging and Spectroscopy of Three Highly Magnified Images of a Supernova at z=1.5"
type: ""
---
# 2767 - Imaging and Spectroscopy of Three Highly Magnified Images of a Supernova at z=1.5
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2767
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Folder | Observation | Label                                                                | Observing Template         | Science Target     |
| :----- | :---------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------- | :------------------------- | :----------------- |
| 2      |             | NIRCam Imaging                                                     | NIRCam Imaging             | (1) RXJ2129        |
| 5      |             | G140 try again fixed unconstrained v7, PRISM unconstrained v10 | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (2) RXJ2129-CAT-V3 |

---

## ABSTRACT

We have detected a strongly lensed supernova (SN) in HST imaging of the RX J2129 galaxy-cluster field acquired on August 7, 2022. The SN's apparent F110W magnitude of 24.70+-0.15 and a non-detection in F606W yield an 80% probability that the transient is a Type Ia SN. The foreground galaxy-cluster gravitational lens creates a set of three images of the SN's host galaxy at redshift 1.52, and we have detected the SN in the trailing, or last-arriving image. The other images are predicted to have arrived ~320 and ~1000 days previously.

A target-of-opportunity program with HST has been triggered to measure the transient's light curve through late October. Here we propose NIRSpec G140M and PRISM spectroscopy at the locations of all three images in early October, when the field becomes accessible to JWST. If the SN is a Type Ia SN, then we will be able to calibrate its luminosity and directly measure its magnification. This will provide a novel test of galaxy-cluster mass models. The spectra will be the first high S/N spectra of a z>1 SN and enable comparision with low-redshift SNe Ia to address an important systematic that may affect SN Ia cosmology. The PRISM observations will acquire spectra of ~150 objects and will also improve the mass model.

We also propose for deep JWST NIRCam imaging to measure the flux of the previous arrival of the SN. With 5-sigma limiting depth of 29.2, imaging in F150W can be expected to detect the fading image. Its brightness will constrain the SN's age, and therefore the image's relative time delay. A strong detection and well-characterized SN Ia may enable a new, independent measurement of the Hubble constant.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We request NIRCam follow-up imaging (F115W, F150W, F200W, F277W, F356W, and F444W) of the images of the newly identified supernova (SN) at z=1.52.
We also propose for NIRSpec G140M/F070LP and G140M/F100LP medium-resolution MSA spectrosopy, and PRISM MSA spectroscopy of the three images of the SN, as well as background sources in the galaxy cluster field.
The galaxy-cluster field becomes accessible to JWST in early October, and we request that the observations be scheduled shortly after they can be acquired.