---
id: 2768
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 4.4
program_title: "Uranus High Spatial Resolution Global Map from NIRCam"
type: ""
---
# 2768 - Uranus High Spatial Resolution Global Map from NIRCam
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2768
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label          | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :------------- | :----------------- | :------------- |
| URANUS-Lon1    | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) URANUS     |
| URANUS-Lon2    | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) URANUS     |
| URANUS-Lon3    | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) URANUS     |

## ABSTRACT
    We will use NIRCam to produce novel science in addition to following up the anticipated Cycle 1 investigations with the other JWST instruments. High-resolution images of the planet at three separate longitudes will generate a 360-degree map. These data will provide detailed context for the expected Cycle 1, and will also add critical new observations sensitive to the tropospheric hazes and the auroral activity in the upper atmosphere of Uranus. The entire system will be in the field of view with chance to observe the rings and satellites.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION
    Observing Uranus with NIRCam to create high-resolution images of the planet at three separate longitudes to generate a 360-degree map. Uranus rotates in 17 hours, 14 minutes. The time between adjacent sets should therefore be around 5-6 hours. Each of the three longitudes will have around 1.5 hours of executable time. These data will provide detailed context for the expected Cycle 1, and will also add critical new observations sensitive to the tropospheric hazes and the auroral activity in the upper atmosphere of Uranus. The filters were chosen to match the science objectives and fit within the allocated time. Use of the RAPID mode will ensure that we get snapshots of the planetary system and reduce any smearing caused by integrating over longer exposure times. Using INTRAMODULEBOX dithering pattern will support the short planetary disk exposures, while still having a square FOV for moons. We will take multiple groups/integrations per filter pair to increase SNR but decrease the risk of saturation from localized bright features.