---
id: 2770
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "Mark McCaughrean"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 21.3
program_title: "Brown Dwarfs and Free-floating Planetary Mass Objects in Orion: Spectroscopy"
type: ""
---
# 2770 - Brown Dwarfs and Free-floating Planetary Mass Objects in Orion: Spectroscopy
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2770
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                       | Observing Template               | Science Target        |
| :-------------------------- | :------------------------------- | :-------------------- |
| Combined_EastDeep4_Mid1_West4 | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (1) Catalogue_4       |
| Visit1_replanned_ver2       | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (5) EastSide_HiConRefs|

---

## ABSTRACT

The origin of the stellar initial mass function (IMF) remains a mystery, despite many years of observational and theoretical work. One key issue is how far into the planetary-mass regime 'free-floating objects' can be found, and whether there is a cut-off in the IMF at the very lowest masses, deep into the brown dwarf regime. Embedded clusters in star-forming regions provide an excellent opportunity to search for such objects, as they are relatively warm and luminous when young. Models predict a minimum mass cut-off at a few Mjup, and while ground- and space-based optical and near-infrared observations do show some objects at those limits, it is almost impossible to go any deeper in search of a cut-off without space-based thermal-IR imaging to catch cool (< 1000K) objects at ~1Mjup and below (assuming a 1Myr age for the cluster). In Cycle 1, we carried out a NIRCam imaging survey of the inner regions (~11 x 7.5 arcmin) of the Orion Nebula Cluster, where the density of cluster members is greatest and the background molecular cloud extinction (and thus shielding from field stars) is highest. In Cycle 2, we will obtain spectroscopy for a range of photometrically-selected low-mass members of the cluster using the NIRSpec MSA and R~100 prism observations down to ~1Mjup and potentially lower.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will carry out NIRSpec MSA spectroscopy in R~100 prism mode of very low-mass candidate brown dwarfs and free-floating planets in the inner ~11.5 x 7.5 arcmin of the Orion Nebula and Trapezium Cluster. The candidates will be selected from Cycle 1 NIRCam multi-filter imaging of the same region.
Six NIRSpec MSA pointings will be used to cover the region imaged, with specific pointings and object selections to be made once the Cycle 1 imaging has been obtained and analysed.