---
id: 2772
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "Roeland van der Marel"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 1.6
program_title: "Galactic Center Astrometry"
type: ""
---
# 2772 - Galactic Center Astrometry
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2772
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label        | Observing Template | Science Target        |
| :----------- | :----------------- | :-------------------- |
| Second visit | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) NAME-GAL-CENTER |
| Second visit | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) NAME-GAL-CENTER |

---

## ABSTRACT

We will observe the Galactic Center with NIRCam to study the orbits of stars around the supermassive black hole and the structure of the nuclear star cluster. We will focus on the fainter stars, which are harder to measure from the ground. We will observe through medium-band filters in order to go deep without saturating the bright stars too much. This set of observations will constitute a second epoch. Combined with a first epoch already taken in Cycle 1, and a third epoch, which will be taken in Cycle 3, we will measure proper motions; three epochs are necessary to account for curvature in the orbits so close to the Galactic Center.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will observe the Galactic center through medium-band filters, which will provide a nice compromise between not missing too many of the bright stars and going deep enough to provide a good complement to ground-based observations. We were able to fit in 7 secondary dithers, which should allow an exquisite reconstruction of the JWST PSF, which is of course critical to high-accuracy astrometry. NIRISS will be observed in parallel so that we can get some additional information for a nearby field.

In Cycle 1, observations were executed at the beginning of August 2022. This was important to maximize the time baseline, and hence proper motion accuracy, when compared to planned follow-up JWST observations in later cycles.

This APT file is used for Cycle 2 observations. The changes with respect to Cycle 1 (GTO 1306 program) strategy are the following:

- Different NIRCam filters (F140M SW filter to make a CMD with SW data only; F250M LW filter to decrese the number of pixel with hard saturation --no slope-- in the LW data);
- Different NIRISS filter (F200W filter to make a CMD with NIRISS data only).

We ask for the following special requirements:

- V3 PA of 87.032906090762 deg. This is needed to perfectly overlap the Cycle 2 observations with those of Cycle 1 both for NIRCam and NIRISS detectors;
- Before date 10/31/2023. We need observations taken 1 year apart;
- Offset (X,Y)=(52,34.5) arcsec. This puts the Galactic Center at the center of NIRCam's SW SCA B3.