---
id: 2773
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 6.1
program_title: "Deciphering the Extended Dust and Gas Environment of the Archetypal Type-1 AGN in NGC 4151 with JWST"
type: ""
---
# 2773 - Deciphering the Extended Dust and Gas Environment of the Archetypal Type-1 AGN in NGC 4151 with JWST
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2773
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label         | Observing Template                | Science Target          |
| :------------ | :-------------------------------- | :---------------------- |
| MIRI MRS IFU  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) NGC4151-BACKGROUND |
| MIRI MRS IFU  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) NGC4151             |
| MIRI MRS IFU  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) BD+40-2507          |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose to exploit the full capability of the MIRI spectrometer to advance immensely our understanding of the active nucleus (AGN) of NGC 4151 in the mid-IR. This galaxy is the closest with a luminous Type-1 AGN, allowing high spatial resolution (down to ~ 10 pc with the MRS) and making it the archetype to set the framework for understanding more distant examples that will be studied at these wavelengths with JWST over its lifetime. Our investigation takes full advantage of the 7 times higher angular resolution, 5 times greater spectral resolution, and ~ 60 times greater sensitivity (to an unresolved line) of JWST compared with the Spitzer IRS. These new capabilities let us probe in detail the rich dust and gas features in the mid-IR window that provide critical diagnostics of the AGN physics and its relation with the host galaxies. Specifically, we will characterize (1) the morphology, temperature and composition of the extended polar dust components associated with the the AGN narrow-line region; (2) the ionizing AGN continuum shape between X-ray and UV bands which cannot be directly accessed for any AGNs due to intergalactic absorption; and (3) the relation of excited PAH molecules and molecular hydrogen to the gas inflow and possible star formation near the AGN. These results will complement the detailed picture of the AGN in NGC 4151 with existing multi-wavelength data across the electromagnetic spectrum.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will use MIRI/MRS to spatially resolve the mid-IR gas and dust properties of the extended structures surrounding the type-1 AGN in NGC 4151. All the channels of MIRI have been used to continuously sample the dust continuum and emission line features from 5 to 28 m. With an integration time of 50 mins in Band C, we are expected to detect the AGN-heated 11.3 m PAH emission at 10-sigma at a distance of 2 arcsec to the AGN, the faintest key feature that this proposal is targeting. Together with the 10 mins exposures in Band A and Band B, we can reach S/N ~ 2 -- 300 of the narrow line region dust emission and S/N∼7-- 150 of all the major forbidden lines at the same distance. To improve the astrometry measurements, we require target acquisition on NGC 4151 nucleus with the FND filter. To avoid saturation, FAST readout pattern with 10 groups per integration is selected. As MIRI MRS is spatially under-sampled, we adopt a 4-point dither pattern optimized for extended sources. To enable accurate PSF subtraction, we observe a bright PSF at a distance 5.5 arcmin to the nuclei. Finally, to robustly constrain the polar dust morphology and strength over the FOV, dedicated background observation is planned at a blank field near the PSF star.