---
id: 2774
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "George Rieke"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 8.2
program_title: "The Environment of ULAS J1120+0641"
type: ""
---
# 2774 - The Environment of ULAS J1120+0641
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2774
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label          | Observing Template | Science Target           |
| :------------- | :----------------- | :----------------------- |
| ULAS J1120     | NIRCam Imaging     | (2) ULASJ1120+0641-host |

---

## ABSTRACT

The existence of luminous quasars associated with intense star formation in the early Universe requires a rapid build up of both super massive black holes and host galaxies. At these early times, it is likely that these quasars are associated with highly overdense regions, young proto-clusters which may collapse to the most massive clusters at present day. However, due to several observational limitations, the literature is currently conflicted on whether quasars at high-z occupy galaxy overdensities. We propose to observe ULAS J1120+0641, a spectroscopically-confirmed quasar at z=7.0842, with NIRCam narrow and medium band imaging to identify or rule out a surrounding overdensity of faint emission line galaxies. We will use multiple bands centered on the redshifted wavelength of [OIII]5007, which will allow us to probe for a protocluster at the exact redshift of the quasar (1% bandwidth in F405N) and also for a larger overdensity (10% bandwidth in F410M). Combined with previous measurements (deep HST), this will probe whether the quasar has a host galaxy that has grown by what is considered the "normal" process, e.g., mergers with other members of an overdensity.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

ULAS J1120+0641 will be centered in NIRCam module B, with module A providing a flanking field. The INTRAMODULEBOX pattern with four primary dithers will be used to cover the short wavelength detector gaps. Imaging will be obtained in three filter sets: F405N(+F444W) and F090W, F410M and F150W, and F360M and F200W. F405N and F410M will contain the [OIII]5007 emission line at the redshift of the quasar, which will be identified as color excess compared to the other long wave bands measuring continuum. At z~7, these emission lines are known to have large equivalent widths and assuming this, we have determined exposures times which will detected down to SFR~1 Msun/yr.

For the short wave bands, F090W will contain the Ly-alpha emission line and refine photometric redshifts, while F150W and F277W will measure the continuum and help remove interlopers. HST will further be used to identify interlopers, primarily from the H-alpha line at z~5, [SII] at z~3.5 and [SIII] at z~3.3. Galaxies at higher redshifts than ULAS J1120+0641 may enter the band with [OIII]4959 (z~7.2), H-beta (z~7.3), and H-gamma (z~8.3); however, these lines are weaker than [OIII]5007 and/or should have clear Lyman breaks in HST+F090W.