---
id: 2775
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 3.7
program_title: "A Census of Star Formation and Early Quenching in a High-z Galaxy Cluster"
type: ""
---
# 2775 - A Census of Star Formation and Early Quenching in a High-z Galaxy Cluster
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2775
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label      | Observing Template | Science Target      |
| :--------- | :----------------- | :------------------ |
| La Pequena | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) LA-PEQUENA      |

## ABSTRACT

We propose to obtain (resolved) Pa-alpha emission as color excess over the continuum in a galaxy cluster at z=1.3188 using NIRCam medium band imaging. This cluster is observed during the epoch in which clusters undergo a transition to widespread, rapid quenching. Pa-alpha in F430M (plus F356W and F460M for continuum) will secure cluster memberships and extinction-robust SFRs, mapped on sub-kpc scales, down to SFR~3Msun/yr and log M*/Msun~9. This will be the first census of SFGs in a cluster during this transition epoch and crucially it will probe to lower stellar masses where environmental effects are less ambiguous due to the long timescales for secular quenching in log M*/Msun<10 galaxies. In well detected cluster members, the resolved SFR can further be used to obtain evidence of outside-in or inside-out quenching. Simultaneous short wavelength imaging in F070W and F115W will bracket the 4000A break in quiescent cluster members to log M*/Msun~9.7. This accounting of cluster members and their star formation combined with NIRCam-measured morphologies and merger rates and AGN from existing data will provide a holistic view of ongoing activity and early quenching in the core and infall regions of a massive cluster, with the parameter space to identify the mechanisms driving early quenching.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Target 1, a galaxy cluster, will be observed with one pointing of NIRCam in three sets of filters: F430M+F070W, F460M+F070W, and F356W+F115W. 5sigma sensitivity will be 26.4-27mag. The main science will be in the long wavelength bands, with the Pa-alpha emission line centered in the F430M filter at the redshift of the target and spanning 4.303-4.394um given the observed velocity dispersion of 360 km/s (from X-ray and spec-z members). The F356W and F460M bands will be used as continuum to determine color excess in F430M in the emission line down to SFR~3 Msun/yr and log M*/Msun~9. The identification of colors excess will confirm cluster membership and measure (resolved on sub-kpc scales) SFRs.

The shortwave NIRCam bands will be used to identify the 4000A break and refine photometric redshifts in quiescent galaxies, confirming whether they have a high probability of being cluster members. The shortwave bands plus public Cycle 1 JWST data (PID 1727, F115W, F150W, F277W, F444W) and existing ancillary data will be used in conjunction with the longwave continuum bands to model the UV-NIR SED and weed out contaminants which include the weak emission lines Pa-beta at z~2.35 and Br-gamma at z~1 and the stellar bump at z~1.5-1.8 in massive (brighter than ~23mag) galaxies.

Target 1 will be centered in NIRCam module B, which has better throughput at the long wavelength end. Module A will provide a flanking field which covers the infall region of the cluster. Galaxies with photometric redshifts close to the cluster, but with no color excess and not in the cluster will form a control, field sample. The aperture PA range of 94-111.5 is requested to achieve background levels which within 10% of our targeted sensitivity, necessary to reach our target SFR.

A MIRI parallel will be done in F1280W totalling ~6600s, comparable to the MIRI F1280W parallels obtained in Cycle 1 in GOODS-S and GOODS-N (PID 1180). This will expand the area with deep 12.8um imaging, which enables discovery space up to z~3-4 via MIRI to NIRCam (from PID 1727) colors.