---
id: 2782
proposal_type: "ddt"
cycle: 1
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 2.2
program_title: "Heavy element formation in the brightest gamma-ray burst of all time"
type: ""
---
# 2782 - Heavy element formation in the brightest gamma-ray burst of all time
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2782
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                        | Observing Template            | Science Target |
| :--------------------------- | :---------------------------- | :------------- |
| NIRSpec Fixed Slit           | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (1) GRB221009  |
| MIRI LRS                     | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) GRB221009  |

---

## ABSTRACT

The long duration gamma-ray burst GRB 221009A is the brightest GRB in 50-years of observations and ~10,000 GRBs. Not only is it the brightest ever seen, but optical observations show it to be relatively local (z = 0.15), making it a very rare nearby, but high luminosity system, with an energy E_iso > 10^54 erg (if released isotropically), comparable with the bursts seen at high redshift in the early Universe. Here we propose a modest JWST observation to obtain an optical-mid-IR spectrum of the counterpart and associated supernova at the peak of the SN light (in 10-14 days time). The critical expansion into the mid-IR will allow us to search for signatures of heavy element production in the burst. Long GRBs (especially highly-energetic ones) have been suggested to be important contributors to the nucleosynthesis of heavy elements via the r-process. Due to its proximity and rarity, GRB 221009A is the only highly luminous event for which JWST will be ever able to directly test this model. The high signal to noise spectra will allow us to disentangle afterglow, supernova and r-process signatures to provide unique scientific insight, while also providing a template for future mid-IR observations of GRBs and their supernovae. Indeed, even a single NIRSPEC observation would enable dramatic new science in its own right.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We request observations of GRB 221009A with NIRSPEC and MIRI. Our observational strategy is simple.

For NIRSpec, we will use the prism, and assume (pessimistically) that the source will be a ~10000K black body, scaled to the absolute magnitude of SN~1998bw and with appropriate Av added. Using NRSIRS2 with 6 groups/integration, 1 integration/exposure and 4 dither positions will provide S/N >100 over 0.7-3.5 µm and >50 over the remaining wavelength range. This is sufficient to provide a high quality spectral observation for searching for supernova features.

In addition, MIRI observations can extend the wavelength baseline by a factor of >2, providing the first mid-IR spectrum of a GRB. These observations (especially at the redder end) will be free of both foreground and host extinction and supernova light and so will accurately measure the afterglow properties.

For MIRI observations, we select LRS slit spectroscopy as we expect some crowding from neighboring sources, and don't need time series spectroscopy. For our observations, we select 100 groups, 1 integration, and 1 exposure as reasonable defaults for MIRI LRS, and will dither using "ALONG SLIT NOD". Only in the case that the afterglow is exceptionally bright do we expect a few pixels of saturation, and only in the last few groups. We use a simple power law to estimate reasonable wavelength dependence for an expected afterglow. We estimate the SNR for different brightnesses of the afterglow, we expect that the source will have H(AB) < 17 at the time of our observations, nd our observing strategy provides enough signal to noise for a significant (SNR 10) detection down to 10 µm in all cases. We additionally test acquisition and find that 4 frames is adequate in all cases to achieve high signal to noise, and expect to be able to acquire the target in any instance.

The low Galactic latitude of the field does mean that it is relatively crowded, but we have a precise position for the GRB and so can place it accurately within the slit for both instruments.