---
id: 2784
proposal_type: "ddt"
cycle: 1
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 11.2
program_title: "Late Time Observations of GRB 221009A: The First Search for r-Process Nucleosynthesis in a Collapsar"
type: ""
---
# 2784 - Late Time Observations of GRB 221009A: The First Search for r-Process Nucleosynthesis in a Collapsar
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2784
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label             | Observing Template              | Science Target      |
| :---------------- | :------------------------------ | :------------------ |
| Spectroscopy      | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (1) GRB221009A-OT |
| Imaging Epoch 1   | NIRCam Imaging                  | (1) GRB221009A-OT |
| Imaging Epoch 2   | NIRCam Imaging                  | (1) GRB221009A-OT |

## ABSTRACT

Recent theoretical simulations of accreting black holes formed from the core collapse of massive stars, so-called collapsars and the likely progenitors of long gamma-ray bursts, suggest they may be significant sites of r-process nucleosynthesis. The recent GRB 221009A, discovered on October 9, 2022, is an unprecedentedly bright long-duration GRB that is sufficiently nearby (z=0.151) for detailed follow up to search for r-process signatures. Late time (nebular phase) observations of this event would provide the first ever constraints on r-process nucleosynthesis in collapsar events, a goal that we can only accomplish with JWST. Here, we propose to observe the event at late times (>150 days after explosion) with NIRSpec in fixed-slit mode, and NIRCam to obtain late-time color information and monitor the light curve decline. Given the powerful jet launched in this GRB, we expect a substantial accretion disk in the system, which should produce high quantities of r-process elements; our JWST spectra/photometry will provided the tightest constraints on r-process nucleosynthesis in core-collapse supernovae. Even in the absence of r-process enhanced material, nebular phase spectra probe the innermost ejecta of supernovae; our observations will provide a definitive look at the unique progenitor which launched the brightest jet ever observed. DDT observations are essential for this unique object as it exploded and will fade during Cycle 1.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Here we will obtain late-time observations (>150 days) of GRB221009A to search for r-process signatures produced by the collapsar power source. We will obtain one epoch of NIRSpec fixed-slit spectroscopy with the S200A1 slit using the G140M/F100LP and G235M/F170LP grating/filter combinations to obtain wavelength coverage from 1-3 microns. This is the region where strong signatures of r-process are expected. We use WATA target acquisition with an offset star. For both setups we use a 5-point primary dither pattern, FULL frame readout, and the NRSIRS2 readout pattern. We use 30 groups per intergration and 1 integration per exposure, yielding a total exposure time of 3 hours for each grating/filter setup.
We will also obtain two epochs of photometry using NIRCam with the F115W, F200W, F277W, and F444W filters to monitor color evolution and the light curve decline rate. Depending on total exposure time for the two epochs, we use either the BRIGHT1 or SHALLOW4 readout patterns with 7 groups per integration and 1 integration per exposure. We use 4 STANDARD sub-pixel dithers.