---
id: 2787
proposal_type: "ddt"
cycle: 1
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 5.7
program_title: "A sensitive search for rings and small moons in the Martian system using JWST"
type: ""
---
# 2787 - A sensitive search for rings and small moons in the Martian system using JWST
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2787
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label      | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :--------- | :----------------- | :------------- |
| RingPA1a   | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) MARS       |
| RingPA1a   | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) MARS       |
| RingPA1b   | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) MARS       |
| RingPA1b   | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) MARS       |
| RingPA2a   | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) MARS       |
| RingPA2b   | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) MARS       |
| Mars       | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) MARS       |

## ABSTRACT

We propose a sensitive search for rings and small moons around Mars that would radically change our knowledge of the Mars system, and set unprecedented constraints on the existence of rings and the evolution of Mars and its moons. The most sensitive search for Martian rings to date was with the Hubble Space Telescope (Showalter et al., 2006), which set upper limits. The orders of magnitude improvement in sensitivity with JWST will put stringent constraints on how ejecta rings are created, and about the formation and evolution of the Mars system.
We request Director's Discretionary observations for several reasons. 1) JWST's PSF is better than predicted and the residual scattered light from the bright planets is less than expected; these result in exquisite capabilities of JWST to detect faint ring signatures near bright objects as demonstrated for Jupiter and Neptune. 2) The window of opportunity for this observation is exceedingly rare; it occurs in late March 2023 both due to the availability of Mars in the JWST Field of Regard and the edge-on orientation of the Martian rings; the next opportunity is in 2033. 3) The JWST PA can rotate in a very restrictive way, and fortunately, the allowed range is good for our proposed observations in March 2023. 4) The time request is modest but the science return could be major: only a total of 6 hours of observation would lead to orders of magnitude improvement over our current understanding of planetary ring formation, and, if successful, yield an outcome with significant public appeal.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The proposed observations require the large dynamic range provided by JWST. We employ broad band filters to do deep probes for rings, and narrow band filters with sub-array reading to accurately capture the Mars fluxes. The NIRCam filters targeting the rings were selected to maximize signal-to-noise and to minimize the PSF, while the observations targeting Mars employ small subarray readouts and filters that ensure linearity. The filters for Mars are the same as those employed for our successful GTO observations that took place in September 2022. The sub-sampling mode only captures the center of the planet, and the proposed short integrations in this mode are solely done to provide an auxiliary calibration point to our measurements.