---
id: 2826
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: John Carr"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "19.08/0"
program_title: "Evolution of Chemical Diversity in Inner Disks: Core Accretion and Pebble Inflow"
type: "GO"
---
# 2826 - Evolution of Chemical Diversity in Inner Disks: Core Accretion and Pebble Inflow
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2826
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template                  | Science Target     |
| :---- | :---------------------------------- | :----------------- |
| 2     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (10) LRL-40        |
| 10    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (11) LRL-41        |
| 3     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (14) LRL-55        |
| 4     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (9) LRL-37         |
| 5     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (17) LRL-63        |
| 6     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (89) LRL-9060      |
| 11    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (8) LRL-36         |
| 1     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (15) LRL-58        |
| 7     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (7) LRL-32         |
| 8     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (91) LRL-10352     |
| 9     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) LRL-15         |
| 12    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (126) LRL-1933     |

## ABSTRACT

The inner regions of protoplanetary disks around T Tauri stars display remarkable diversity in their infrared molecular line emission, as discovered in surveys with Spitzer, suggesting that inner disks (inside the water snowline ~ 1 au) have diverse C/O ratios at ~1 Myr of age. Chemical diversity of this kind is expected to result from planet formation and disk evolution. Core accretion is expected to efficiently convert icy solids into planetesimals and protoplanets (a process that dehydrates the inner disk), while pebble inflow (a process that superhydrates the inner disk) is expected to dominate at early times or in disks that fail to convert most of their icy solids into planetesimals. By surveying molecular line emission from inner disks as a function of age, we can infer the roles these processes play (their timescale, prevalence, and extent) in the evolution of disk populations. We therefore propose to study an older population of disks in the IC 348 cluster (~ 3 Myr). With the high sensitivity of MIRI-MRS, it is now possible to study disks beyond the nearest star forming regions (> 140 pc) and probe such populations. Our study will complement earlier Spitzer and current JWST studies of young disks (~1 Myr), provide valuable constraints on theories of disk evolution, and inform our understanding of planet formation in disk populations.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This program aims to obtain mid-infrared spectra of molecular emission in 12 Class II disks in the young cluster IC 348. All observations use the MIRI-MRS with exposures at all three grating settings to give coverage of the full wavelength range. Exposures are set to provide S/N >=250 at 14 microns. The targets are expected to be unresolved. Target acquisitions are done for each star in order to ensure a systematic placement on the array.