---
id: 2869
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Michael Brown"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "4.47/0"
program_title: "The interiors of Jupiter Trojans as tracers of Solar System evolution"
type: "GO"
---
# 2869 - The interiors of Jupiter Trojans as tracers of Solar System evolution
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2869
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label        | Observing Template       | Science Target |
| :----------- | :----------------------- | :------------- |
| 1998SU52     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) 1998SU52   |
| Anchialos    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (2) ANCHIALOS  |
| 1998RM11     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (3) 1988RM11   |
| 2001CT13     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (4) 2001CT13   |

---

## ABSTRACT

The Nice models of solar system-wide dynamical instability predict that the Jupiter Trojans should be derived from the same region and thus have the same icy composition as the objects in the Kuiper belt. Spectra have shown no relationship between the surface compositions of these objects (and Cycle 1 spectra have made the differences even more dramatic), but it is plausible that the higher temperatures of the Jupiter Trojans would sufficiently modify Kuiper belt surfaces to make them unrecognizable. We have identified 4 ~20km Jupiter Trojans with albedos elevated above the typical Trojan values. Statistically, this is approximately the number of objects of this size which are expected to have had catastrophic collisions in the past ~100 Myr. These objects are plausibly the largest recent impacts in the Jupiter Trojan population and could retain the spectroscopic signatures of fresh interior materials. We propose a short reconnaissance program designed to measure the surface composition of these objects. Such a program could quickly and definitively establish the connection between the Jupiter Trojans and the Kuiper belt objects, confirming an early dynamical instability in our solar system.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to observe 4 high albedo albedo Jupiter Trojans using NIRSPEC IFU PRISM mode. These objects could be fragments of recent catastrophic impacts in the Trojan clouds and thus retain pristine signatures of interior materials (perhaps explaining their unusal albedos).
All targets have well known position so we use the IFU with no target centering. We target a S/N to allow robust detection of water ice Fresnel features, CO2 ice, and hydrate silicates, if present. The high signal-to-noise across the entire wavelength range will allow us to detect ices, silicates, organics, and other materials that could plausibly be exposed in recent impacts.