---
id: 2876
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Bin Yang  Co-PI: Michael Kelley"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "12.62/0"
program_title: "Probing Water Ice in Distant Comets: Crystalline or Amorphous?"
type: "GO"
---
# 2876 - Probing Water Ice in Distant Comets: Crystalline or Amorphous?
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2876
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                   | Observing Template        | Science Target      |
| :---------------------- | :------------------------ | :------------------ |
| C2019E3 NIRSpec         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (1) C-2019-E3       |
| C2019E3 Background      | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (4) C-2019-E3-OFFSET|
| C2020F2 NIRSpec         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (2) C-2020-F2       |
| C2020F2 Background      | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (5) C-2020-F2-OFFSET|
| C2019O3 NIRspec         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (3) C-2019-03       |
| C2019O3 Background      | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (6) C-2019-03-OFFSET|

## ABSTRACT

Water ice plays a key role in the early stages of planet formation. Characterizing water ice, especially in comets, can yield important insights into the formation of planetary Systems, the origins of planetary atmospheres, and the source of Earth's oceans. However, studying the properties of cometary water ice has been challenging, and our knowledge of primordial ice remains highly limited. Recent JWST observations of the largest Oort Cloud comet, C/2014 UN271, reveal the unexpected presence of a significant amount of crystalline ice in this distant comet, which should be composed solely of amorphous water ice. The surprising discovery made by JWST challenges our current understanding of comet formation in the outer protoplanetary disk. On the other hand, C/2014 UN271 is a large comet (>100 km) and thus could have experienced internal heating. It also underwent multiple outbursts recently. Therefore, the detected crystalline ice may not be primordial but a result of surface or internal alteration processes. With this new detection, JWST has finally opened the window to study water ice in comets, a key piece needed to understand the formation of the Solar system. To exploit this unprecedented opportunity, we propose NIRSpec observations of three kilometer-sized distant comets which have never shown outbursts and are expected to have retained their primordial state. Our study will provide strong observational evidence to answer the hotly debated questions: What is the water ice content of comets? What were the required conditions for the formation of the protoplanetary disk from the Solar Nebula?

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to observe three distant comets, using NIRSpec IFU prism mode from 0.8 to 5.2 micron, to search for water ice features at 1.5, 2.0 and 3.0 micron, respectively. All IFU observations have dedicated backgrounds.
For each comet, the science observation and the background observation are sequenced together, non-interruptable. This ensures the background observations are taken under similar conditions as the source data.