---
id: 2883
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/WFSS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Fengwu Sun"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "38.73/19.11"
program_title: "MAGNIF: Medium-band Astrophysics with the Grism of NIRCam in Frontier Fields"
type: "GO"
---
# 2883 - MAGNIF: Medium-band Astrophysics with the Grism of NIRCam in Frontier Fields
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2883
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label        | Observing Template                    | Science Target          |
| :----------- | :------------------------------------ | :---------------------- |
| A2744-F360M  | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (1) ABELL2744           |
| A2744-F480M  | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (1) ABELL2744           |
| A370-F360M   | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (2) ABELL370            |
| A370-F480M   | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (2) ABELL370            |
| M0416-F360M  | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (3) MCS-J0416.1-2403    |
| M0416-F480M  | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (3) MCS-J0416.1-2403    |
| M1149-F360M  | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (4) MCS-J1149.5+2223    |
| M1149-F480M  | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (4) MCS-J1149.5+2223    |

---

## ABSTRACT

Which type of galaxies reionized the Universe? Previous HST observations have measured the rest-frame UV luminosity function (LF) of galaxies at z=2-10, suggesting a steeper faint-end slope of UVLF toward higher redshift. If true, dwarf galaxies should contribute to the majority of ionizing photon budget at z=6-10. However, the spectroscopic completeness of galaxies decreases dramatically towards the faint end and high redshift, and it still remains unclear (1) how many dropout-selected sources are genuine galaxies at the Epoch of Reionization, (2) how many ionizing photons did they emit, and thus (3) whether dwarf galaxies reionized the Universe.

We propose a novel cosmological experiment, aiming to resolve the fundamental questions mentioned above with the most efficient strategy among all available JWST observing modes/programs. This will be achieved with a medium-band slitless spectroscopic survey with NIRCam grism at 3.6 and 4.8um in four frontier field clusters, where deep JWST 1-5um imaging and 1-2.2um spectroscopy will be obtained by Cycle 1. By combining medium-filter (low sky-background) and lensing magnification, we will construct unbiased, flux-complete samples of ~440 and ~50 [OIII] emitters at z~6 and 8 down to an unprecedented faint end, 10-100x deeper than any existing survey. We will measure the faint-end slope of [OIII] LF and spectroscopic complete UVLF, study the 100pc-scale star formation, metallicity, dust attenuation, kinematics, production and escape of ionizing photon in dwarf galaxies through multiple emission lines across z=1-9. We waive the proprietary period to encourage community engagement, including public transient search.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will obtain NIRCam wide-field slitless spectroscopy (WFSS) of four Frontier Field clusters, namely Abell 2744, Abell 370, MACS J0416 and MACS J1149. All of these cluster fields are scheduled to be observed with NIRCam 1-5um imaging, NIRISS 1-2.2um WFSS and NIRCam/NIRISS parallel imaging at 1-5um with various JWST Cycle-1 programs, including GTO-1176 (PEARLS), GTO-1208 (CANUCS), ERS-1324 (GLASS), GO-2561 (UNCOVER) and DDT-2756. The positional angles (PAs) and footprints of our proposed observations are carefully designed to maximize the overlapping area with existing or scheduled JWST NIRCam and NIRISS observations, and therefore facilitating joint analyses between imaging and spectroscopy, optimizing the legacy value of JWST's observations in Frontier Field clusters.

Our NIRCam WFSS observations will be conducted using Grism C with medium-band filter F360M and F480M. This golden pair of medium filters enable the study of multiple rest-frame optical emission lines (e.g., Halpha, [OIII] doublet, Hbeta and [OII]) within two redshift windows, z~6 and 8-9. With two rows of mosaics, we will provide complete spectral coverage with these two medium filters over two complete NIRCam modules (total area ~ 10 arcmin^2 per cluster), which is not achievable with grism R or other JWST observing mode. The use of medium filters will suppress the length of grism spectrum to 300-400 pixel, and thus mitigate source confusion issues especially in crowded fields like lensing clusters. In addition, the infrared sky background within medium filters can be suppressed to ~1/3 of that with wide filters, allowing us to blindly detect faint emission-line galaxies with less request of observing time.

The NIRCam grism spectroscopy will be obtained with eight-group readout with two-point INTRAMODULEX dither and two-point subpixel dither. The total WFSS integration time for each cluster field with each filter is 6184 s. In parallel with the grism exposure at the long-wavelength (LW) channel, we will obtain deep F182M and F210M medium-band imaging at the same time. After the grism exposure, we will obtain direct and out-of-field imaging with five-group SHALLOW4 readout using the F182M/F210M/F360M/F480M filters over an area of ~15 arcmin^2 per cluster field, and the total integration time per field per filter is 3156 s. The depths of the F360M/F480M images allow us to detect any galaxy for which we expect a 5-sigma emission-line detection with the grism exposure.

The NIRISS parallel imaging will be obtained with eight-group two-integration readout with the grism exposures, and twelve-group readout after the grism exposure in F430M and F480M band. The total integration time per NIRISS filter per field is 8824 s. These NIRISS parallel imaging observations will overlap with Cycle-1 NIRISS or NIRCam parallel imaging of these cluster fields at 1-5um, while filters F430M and F480M were not used in these programs. Therefore, our NIRISS observations will facilitate refined photometric selection of emission-line galaxies at high-redshift, further enhancing the legacy value of existing JWST Frontier-Field observations.