---
id: 2896
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Chris Kochanek"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "1.48/0"
program_title: "Confirming the Formation of a Black Hole"
type: "GO"
---
# 2896 - Confirming the Formation of a Black Hole
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2896
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label   | Observing Template | Science Target  |
| :------ | :----------------- | :-------------- |
| BH1miri | MIRI Imaging       | (1) NGC6946-BH1 |

---

## ABSTRACT

LIGO is revolutionizing the discovery of stellar mass black holes, but it will almost certainly never observe a new black hole being formed from a star. It is possible to find forming black holes by searching for failed supernovae, where a black hole forms without a dramatic explosion. At present, there is one excellent candidate for a failed supernova: NGC 6946-BH1. This ~300,000 Lsun star has vanished in the optical and near-IR at the level of a few 1000 Lsun and in warm SST at the level of ~10,000 Lsun. This means that there can be no surviving star hidden by warm/hot dust (Td>400K). It is, however, possible to hide it with colder dust. JWST MIRI observations at 5.6, 10 and 21 microns can test this possibility in a single short visit.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The objective is to constrain the mid-IR flux of a point source in NGC6946 using MIRI at 5.6 (F560W), 10 (F1000W) and 21 (F2100W) microns. The integration times were chosen so that a source with a band luminosity of nuL_nu=3000 Lsun could be detected with a signal-to-noise ratio of ~10. These will be combined with new HST F110W/F160W observations that are scheduled to be obtained in February 2023.

Any source with an interesting flux will not suffer from background confusion, so the data can all be obtained with standard dithering procedures to improve the PSF sampling and to minimize the consequences of detector artifacts etc. A high background was assumed to represent some contribution from the host galaxy. The BRIGHTSKY detector region was chosen to reduce overheads and to allow larger numbers of groups per integration without risk of saturation even if the source is bright.