---
id: 2905
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Suhail Dhawan"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "4.24/0"
program_title: "First look at high redshift Type Ia supernova cores: Nebular observations of lensed SN Zwicky"
type: "GO"
---
# 2905 - First look at high redshift Type Ia supernova cores: Nebular observations of lensed SN Zwicky
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2905
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template       | Science Target |
| :---- | :----------------------- | :------------- |
|       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) SN-ZWICKY  |
|       | NIRCam Imaging           | (1) SN-ZWICKY  |

## ABSTRACT

Type Ia supernovae (SNe Ia) are excellent distance indicators in cosmology, playing an influential role in understanding dark energy and origin of the Hubble tension. They are pivotal endpoints of stellar evolution and the nature of their progenitors is an important open question. SNe Ia cosmology, especially at high-redshift, is limited by systematic uncertainties, a key source is the evolution of SNe Ia properties with redshift. This proposal presents an unprecedented route to test for redshift evolution. We request the first nebular phase observation of a high-redshift SN Ia; SN Zwicky with a lookback time of 4 Gyr. SN Zwicky is the first strongly lensed SNIa in six years, presenting a rare opportunity for such observations. The mass ratios from the NIRSpec spectrum, will shed light on whether the SN originated from a Chandrasekhar mass or sub-Chandra progenitor. Comparing this with the sizable literature sample of nebular phase observations of local universe SNe Ia, we can determine whether there are evolution effects in the SN Ia properties with redshift, which will critically impact our ability for precision cosmology in the near future. With a small JWST time investment we can break new ground in understanding high-z SNe Ia.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The proposal requests one spectrum and contemporaneous photometry of SN Zwicky in the near infrared at late phases. We request a prism spectrum with NIRSpec to get a high S/N for modelling the broad forbidden emissions that dominate the late time spectrum. Using state-of-the-art models from the literature that the team has developed, we will obtain the mass ratio of the iron group elements to understand the progenitor. This is uniquely possible by combining proposed observations with the exquisite early time data to break the degeneracy between the progenitor mass and metallicity. For spectroscopy, we request a total of 3500 seconds on source and 470s in each filter for imaging to get the required signal. The first two imaging observations should be spaced by approximately 30 days while the third should be taken when the SN is visible again in March 2024. These observations will be the first ever nebular phase observations of a high-redshift Type Ia supernova, a key test for high-z SN cosmology.