---
id: 2919
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging  MIRI/MRS  NIRSpec/FS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Mukremin Kilic"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "7.23/0"
program_title: "Life After Death: Finding Water in a Planetary Disk around a White Dwarf"
type: "GO"
---
# 2919 - Life After Death: Finding Water in a Planetary Disk around a White Dwarf
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2919
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                  | Observing Template                 | Science Target |
| :--------------------- | :--------------------------------- | :------------- |
| NIRSpec Prism          | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy    | (1) GD-362     |
| MIRI MRS to 17 um      | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) GD-362     |
| MIRI Imaging           | MIRI Imaging                       | (1) GD-362     |

## ABSTRACT

The InfraRed Spectrograph (IRS) on the Spitzer Space Telescope provided low-resolution spectroscopy of eight dusty white dwarfs. However, only two had sufficient signal-to-noise ratio for a mineralogical analysis, G29-38 and GD 362, and only one (GD 362) shows potential emission features near 6 microns that could be due to water vapor. We propose to obtain high signal-to-noise ratio, medium resolution spectroscopy of GD 362 with the JWST to detect, for the first time, the water vapor features at high significance, resolve them, and constrain the abundance of water in a remnant planetary disk around a white dwarf. This is a unique opportunity: GD 362 is a unique target, and the JWST spectroscopy will enable us to constrain the composition of the disk, including water ice, water vapor, hydrated minerals, and aqueous alterations, as well as gas phase species. Even a non-detection of water would be significant as it would constrain the origin of the tidally disrupted exomoons and exo-asteroids around this white dwarf. The long term evolution of disks around white dwarfs is also of prime interest; by modeling the silicate emission feature, we will constrain any mineralogical differences compared to the Spitzer IRS observations of GD 362 from early 2000s.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will observe GD 362, a nearby, dusty white dwarf with a precise position, parallax, and proper motion from Gaia DR3. We will use NIRSpec and MIRI to obtain the complete spectral energy distribution from 0.6 to 25 microns. To minimize telescope and slew overheads, we request the observations to be an uninterrupted sequence such that the NIRSpec and MIRI observations are performed on the same visit. However, splitting these observations is also acceptable, as it would not impact our science goals.