---
id: 2950
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/LRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Rens Waters"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "34.38/0"
program_title: "Exploring sulfur dioxide in H/He-rich hot gas giant atmospheres"
type: "GO"
---
# 2950 - Exploring sulfur dioxide in H/He-rich hot gas giant atmospheres
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2950
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                     | Observing Template               | Science Target      |
| :------------------------ | :------------------------------- | :------------------ |
| HAT-P-1b transit LRS      | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) HAT-P-1         |
| HD106315c transit LRS     | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) HD106315        |
| HAT-P-11b transit LRS     | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) HAT-P-11        |
| HAT-P-1b bg               | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (5) HAT-P-1-BG      |
| HD106315c bg              | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (6) HD106315-BG     |
| HAT-P-11b bg              | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) HAT-P-11-BG     |

---

## ABSTRACT

The recent detection of sulfur dioxide (SO2) in the atmosphere of the hot Saturn-mass planet WASP-39b by the JWST exoplanet ERS team opens an exciting new tool to study H/He dominated hot planets. The presence of SO2 can be understood as a result of upper atmosphere photochemistry; its abundance is a strong function of the chemical composition (both metallicity and C/O ratio) of the atmosphere. This is because SO2 is the result of the photodissociation of water to OH and a subsequent reaction with atomic sulfur. Because both oxygen (water) and sulfur abundances scale with metallicity, the upper atmosphere SO2 abundance can increase by several orders of magnitude for planets with 10 times the solar metallicity and solar to sub-solar C/O. The presence of SO2 therefore opens a new venue to determine the atmospheric metallicity and C/O ratio and offers for the first time access to an important chemical element.
We propose to obtain transmission spectra using JWST/MIRI in LRS slitless mode in order to measure the presence and abundance of SO2 in three carefully chosen hot planets with H/He dominated atmospheres in which water has been detected. These observations will allow us to (1) test photochemical atmosphere models that predict a strong dependence of SO2 on metallicity and C/O ratio, (2) establish the impact of different stellar radiation properties on the upper atmosphere photochemistry, and (3) constrain the formation history of the planets.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We request transit spectroscopy of a single transit of three hot H/He dominated planets, using the MIRI in slitless LRS mode. The planets have been selected on the basis of the chemical composition of the planets based on HST or other observations, on the brightness of the parent star and its spectral shape, and the planet/star contrast. At the shortest MIRI wavelengths, the signal may approach the 100 per cent saturation limit.
We have selected the following targets: