---
id: 2957
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Hannah Uebler  Co-PI: Roberto Maiolino"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "46.28/0"
program_title: "The search for Population III stars in low-metallicity 7<z<9.5 galaxies"
type: "GO"
---
# 2957 - The search for Population III stars in low-metallicity 7<z<9.5 galaxies
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2957
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template       | Science Target      |
| :---- | :----------------------- | :------------------ |
|       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) 8013            |
|       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (2) 10058975        |
|       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (3) RX2129-ID11022  |
|       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (3) RX2129-ID11022  |
|       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (4) RX2129-ID11027  |
|       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (5) ABELL-Z7885     |
|       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (6) SXDF-NB1006-2   |
|       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (7) ID4590          |

*(Note: The 'Label' column in the source document appears to be empty for all observations.)*

## ABSTRACT

The detection of Population III (PopIII) stars is one of the major observational challenges in modern astronomy that can uniquely be addressed with JWST. Motivated by theoretical predictions, we propose to search for PopIII stars in the vicinity of low-metallicity (<5% Z_solar) galaxies at redshifts z=7-9.5. The primary galaxies have imaging from JWST and/or HST, and their integrated spectra have been taken with NIRSpec-MSA. Here we propose to map the surroundings of these galaxies with NIRSpec IFS. NIRSpec-IFS has the distinctive imaging-spectroscopic capabilities to disentangle the characteristic spectral features of PopIII stars close to the primary galaxies, in the wavelength range where PopIII features are predicted to be strongest.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This program consists of NIRSpec-IFS PRISM (R~100) observations of seven 7<z<9.5 galaxies. The goal is to search for Population III signatures through rest-frame UV and optical lines, which are fully covered by the NIRSpec prism for our target galaxies.
Two galaxies are located within the GOODS-S deep fiels, and five sources are located within the lensing clusters Abell, RXJ and SMACS.
PA constraints have been have been defined invidiually for each target, to avoid contamination of the spectra due to nearby sources leaking through the MSA in the relevant part of the NIRSpec-MSA footprint (lower third of Q3 and Q4). Issues related to MSA leakage are also minimised through our dither strategy (see below). Therefore we do not require a leakcal exposure.
No target acquisition is included since all galaxies are located in well-studied fields containing stars with good astrometry. Small inaccuracies in acquisition are unproblematic because of the 3"x3" NIRSpec-IFS FoV.
We use a medium cycling pattern with 12-point (10-point) dithers for less (more) massive galaxies, and 20 groups per integration, for a total of 5 (4) hours exposure time per target. The medium cycling pattern provides a good compromise between an amplitude (~0.5") large enough to "jump" failed open microshutters and to deal with other sources of background, while keeping a large FoV (~2.5"x2.5") with complete exposure time. This dither pattern also provides a good sub-pixel sampling.
No background exposures are required since each observations contains a large number of spaxels free from emission from the central source or neighbours. We will use spaxels within the IFS FoV free from line emission to perform a background subtraction.