---
id: 2959
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Jan Scholtz"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "24.18/0"
program_title: "Resolving early galaxy disks at z~8 with NIRSpec-IFS"
type: "GO"
---
# 2959 - Resolving early galaxy disks at z~8 with NIRSpec-IFS
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2959
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template       | Science Target |
| :---- | :----------------------- | :------------- |
| 04590 | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) 04590      |
| 06355 | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (2) 06355      |
| 10612 | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (3) 10612      |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose deep, high spectral resolution (R2700) NIRSpec IFS observations of three lensed star-forming galaxies at z=7.5-8.5 in the SMACS J0723.3-7327S cluster. These galaxies were recently observed with the NIRSPEC MSA in R1000 as part of the Early Released Observations with strong detection of rest-frame optical emission lines, while still representative of `normal' star-forming galaxies (SFR~8-30 Msol/yr). Furthermore, these lensed galaxies already show spatial extension and or signs of velocity gradient in the MSA 2D spectra, making them ideal targets for this kinematical study. Using these deep high-resolution (FWHM=120km/s) observations of [OIII] and Hbeta, we will derive the kinematical properties of these galaxies at the very early stages of galaxy evolution and test if these sources are dominated by turbulent gas or orderly gas-rich disks. This analysis will reveal if smooth accretion from the cosmic web or major mergers contributes most to the build-up of stellar and baryonic mass 700 million years after the Big Bang. This will be the first time this experiment is performed using optical-emission lines at the epoch of reionisations and at such a high resolution (~0.15 arcseconds). Furthermore, we will also search for star-formation driven outflows in the [OIII] emission line in these galaxies including in the suspected AGN in our sample.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This proposal aims to spatially and kinematically resolve the ionized gas and stellar continuum emission in three star-forming galaxies at z=7.5-8.5 using NIRSpec IFS insturment using R2700 grating (resolution of 120 km/s). NIRSpec IFS uses filter F290LP and grating G395H to cover the main optical emission lines such as Hb and [OIII]4959/5007 that are redshifted into the wavelength range, 4.0-5.27um. We ask for 8 point cycling dither to properly sample the PSF. As our observations are in SMACS lensing cluster we require leakcal observations to account for any contamination from opened MSA shutters.