---
id: 2961
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/LRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Paul Molliere"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "9.06/0"
program_title: "Vaporized rocks: Detecting silicate cloud precursors in ultra-hot Jupiters"
type: "GO"
---
# 2961 - Vaporized rocks: Detecting silicate cloud precursors in ultra-hot Jupiters
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2961
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                    | Observing Template               | Science Target           |
| :----------------------- | :------------------------------- | :----------------------- |
| MIRI-LRS_WASP121b        | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) WASP-121B            |
| MIRI-LRS_WASP-121b BKGR | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) WASP-121-background |

---

## ABSTRACT

The James Webb Space Telescope has begun to unambiguously reveal the presence of silicate clouds in exoplanet atmospheres. Here we propose to use it to uniquely identify SiO, a gaseous precursor of said clouds, in the dayside emission of the ultra-hot Jupiter WASP-121b, which is so hot that all condensates evaporate. We estimate that we can detect the fundamental vibration band of SiO at 8 sigma in a single-eclipse measurement with MIRI LRS. Together with archival NIRSpec and NIRISS eclipses from GO 1 and GTO programs, which determine the oxygen abundance, we will constrain the atmospheric silicon-to-oxygen ratio ([Si/O]) with a precision of 0.13 dex. This abundance ratio is a proxy of the relative importance of rock and volatile accretion during planet formation. It is highly informative for formation models, potentially allowing us to constrain the contributions of pebble vs. planetesimal accretion. The relative importance of these two processes in the so-called core accretion paradigm is hotly debated. Our measurements would be complementary to the frequently cited C/O abundance ratio, for which disk processes such as pebble evaporation lead to a much less clear interpretation than previously thought. The first direct detection of SiO may therefore allow us to constrain planet formation from a new and highly informative angle.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

For these observations we require continuous time series spectroscopy with the MIRI/LRS instrument in slitless mode, covering the time of our exoplanet target WASP-121b being eclipsed by its host star, as well as the flux baseline observations shortly before and after. We will use a single long exposure to not break up the time series and to ensure a stable observational sequence.

Special requirements of our observations are that they have to take place during the eclipse of the planet (phase-dependent), should be taken without dithering or other parallel observations, and are limited to certain aperture position angles to prevent contamination of our spectra by nearby sources.