---
id: 2965
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/LRS  NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Beth Biller"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "19.34/0"
program_title: "Clouds or Chemistry?: Pinpointing the drivers of variability across the L/T transition via the benchmark L/T binary WISE 1049AB"
type: "GO"
---
# 2965 - Clouds or Chemistry?: Pinpointing the drivers of variability across the L/T transition via the benchmark L/T binary WISE 1049AB
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2965
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                                                     | Observing Template                  | Science Target   |
| :-------------------------------------------------------- | :---------------------------------- | :--------------- |
| 1                                                         | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy    | (1) WISE1049AB   |
| 2 MIRI background observations                            | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy    | (1) WISE1049AB   |
| 3                                                         | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series   | (1) WISE1049AB   |
| 12 Repeat of Observation 1                                | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy    | (1) WISE1049AB   |
| 11 MIRI background observations - repeat of observation 2 | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy    | (1) WISE1049AB   |
| 13 Repeat of Observation 3                                | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series   | (1) WISE1049AB   |
| 21 Repeat of Observation 11                               | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy    | (1) WISE1049AB   |
| 22 MIRI background observations - repeat of observation 12 | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy    | (1) WISE1049AB   |
| 23 Repeat of Observation 13                               | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series   | (1) WISE1049AB   |

## ABSTRACT

We propose for 7 hours of MIRI LRS monitoring + 7 hours of NIRSPEC prism spectroscopic monitoring of the benchmark binary brown dwarf WISE 1049AB, the closest, brightest brown dwarfs known. Despite sharing the same age, and similar masses, effective temperatures, and viewing angles, WISE1049B is highly variable (5-15%) with a period of ~5 hours, while WISE1049A is <3% variable in the near-IR, with a period of ~7 hours. This is a unique opportunity to isolate two points along the critical L/T spectral type transition. JWST enables access to key molecular features across the near-IR with NIRSPEC and to the 10 um silicate feature with MIRI, which provide key tests for theoretical explanations of the observed variability, in particular: 1) variability due to temperature fluctuations from enhanced diabatic convection (Tremblin et al. 2020) will cause enhanced variability in methane absorption features, no variability in the silicate feature at 9-10 um, and a ~180 degree rotational phase shift between 1.1-1.7 um and 4-5 um lightcurves, while 2) variability due to high-altitude silicate clouds (Luna and Morley 2021) will produce no variability in methane absorption features but enhanced variability at 9-10 um. Our proposed observations will also determine the spatial extent of asymmetric top-of-atmosphere structures in WISE1049AB as a function of wavelength / depth and enable the first phase-resolved spectral retrieval analysis of variable brown dwarfs, as well as the most accurate measurement of bolometric luminosity for each of the components to date. The separation between components is decreasing; after Cycle 2, these observations will not be possible again until 2028.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose in-depth characterization of the variability of both components of WISE 1049AB from 0.6-15 um. Our observations will cover at least full rotation period for each component (7 hours for the A component, 5 hours for the B) component with MIRI LRS slitless time-series monitoring from 5-15 um followed by a second full rotation period covered by NIRSPEC BOTS PRISM mode monitoring from 0.6-5.3 um. The MIRI detector requires 60 minutes to properly correct for ramp effects and allow the detector to settle before reaching the stability required for time series observations, thus we request 7 hours + 1.0 hours = 8 hours on-sky time with MIRI to cover this settling period. We estimate S/N and appropriate cadences for variability monitoring using Phoenix low temperatures models and the JWST ETC. As WISE 1049AB are the brightest two brown dwarfs in the sky, variability monitoring with extremely short cadences will be possible out to 11 um.

According to the best orbit fit from Lazorenko & Sahlmann 2018, WISE 1049B will be at a a position angle of 120.9±1.5 degrees and separation of 0.90±0.05" at the beginning of Cycle 2 (1 July 2023) and a position angle of 116 degrees and separation of 0.77” in March 2024. However, from the first attempt of this program taken in July 2023, we found that WISE 1049B was at a position angle of 113 degrees and separation of ~0.65". From HST WFC3 observations in January 2022 and May 2022, WISE 1049B was at a PA of 128 degrees and a separation of 1.04" in January 2022 and at a PA of 125.2 degrees and a separation of 0.98" in May 2022. Thus, based on the degree of movement in the HST epochs, we estimate a position angle of ~107 degrees of and a separation of 0.5-0.6" in March 2024. While both MIRI and NIRSPEC attain diffraction limited performance, as MIRI works at longer wavelengths, it will have a coarser resolution and thus, we set an APA constraint to ensure optimal separation of the components for MIRI during the observing window. The MIRI LRS mode disperses light along the instrumental y-axis, so we set an APA constraint to align the binary with the instrumental x-axis (object PA - 90 degrees), leading to an APA range of 357-37 degrees and one scheduling window in Cycle 2, in February/March 2024. NIRSPEC disperses along the instrumental y-axis and is oriented 135 degrees with respect to MIRI, thus, if the binary is aligned on the MIRI y-axis, it will be aligned at a roughly 45 degree angle relative to the NIRSPEC y-axis (with the two components offset in x-axis as well, thus requiring also a correction to the wavelengths during pipelining, which we have established how to do with the first epoch observations.) We will perform WATA to acquire WISE 1049AB with NIRSPEC, allowing the algorithm to center one of the two binary component, with the other trace falling either above or below on the detector. We expect a separation between traces of 0.36" to 0.43" during the ideal observing window in February / March 2024, which will still allow the traces to be easily resolved and will also ensure that both traces easily fall within the 1.6"x1.6" field-of-view for the NIRSPEC BOTS mode.