---
id: 2974
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Tommaso Treu  Co-PI: Anowar J. Shajib"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "36.3/0"
program_title: "The Hubble constant at 1.9% from spatially resolved kinematics of gravitational lens"
type: "GO"
---
# 2974 - The Hubble constant at 1.9% from spatially resolved kinematics of gravitational lens
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2974
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template       | Science Target               |
|-------|--------------------------|------------------------------|
| 2     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (2) J1206+4332.LENSGALAXY |
| 3     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (3) B1608+656.LENSGALAXY  |
| 4     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (4) J1721+8842.LENSGALAXY |

---

## ABSTRACT

The Hubble tension is arguably the most tantalizing crack in LCDM's model. If the 8% difference between the Hubble constant measured from the local distance ladder from SHOES and that from Planck is real, then new physics is needed. Independent methods are needed to confirm or rule out the tension.

Gravitational time delays have been used to measure H0 to 2% precision based on 7 lenses, and found to be in agreement with SHOES. The measurement relied on assuming that the mass density profiles of massive elliptical galaxies are described by a power-law or stars + Navarro Frenk White dark matter halos. However, if these standard mass profile assumptions are lifted, the precision is limited by the mass sheet degeneracy (MSD). The MSD is broken by stellar kinematics of the lens galaxies. For the same sample of 7 lenses, the precision on H0 worsens to 8% using ground based unresolved stellar velocity dispersions, without assumptions on the mass profile.

We propose to obtain a 1.9% measurement of H0, sufficient to distinguish SHOES and Planck at 4-sigma, fully accounting for the MSD in the error budget. This requires spatially resolved stellar kinematics of the lens galaxies, necessary to break both the mass sheet degeneracy in lens models and the mass anisotropy degeneracy in dynamical models. Only JWST with the NIRSPEC IFU has sufficient resolution, PSF stability, and sensitivity to obtain this data. In order to be able to reach 1.9% precision on H0 we need a total of 8 lenses with JWST kinematics, carefully selected for the quality of the time delays and other ancillary data. Four are scheduled to be observed in Cycle-1. We propose to observe the remaining 4 in Cycle-2.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will obtain deep spectroscopic observations with the NIRSpec IFU of four galaxies lensing quasars with measured time delays. The spectra will be use to measure spatially resolved kinematics, and, in combination with existing data, measure the Hubble constant to 1.9% precision. We will employ the G140M/F100LP disperser/filter set-up to target the Ca II triplet features, which are shifted into the near-infrared given the redshifts of the lens galaxies. The lens galaxies effective radii fit within one single IFU field of view. We choose the orientation to minimize contamination by the bright quasar images. We apply a standard four-point dither pattern to eliminate defects and cosmic ray hits. The NRSIRS2 readout pattern is adopted, as recommended for long integrations on faint objects. The exposure time is calculated to reach S/N of 20/AA out to the effective radius, which is necessary to measure stellar velocity dispersion with 5% precision and meet our target precision on H0.