---
id: 2987
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Adam Leroy  Co-PIs: Enrico Congiu and Chris Faesi"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "22.06/0"
program_title: "Resolving HII Regions and ISM Structure Across the Milky Way Analog NGC 253"
type: "GO"
---
# 2987 - Resolving HII Regions and ISM Structure Across the Milky Way Analog NGC 253
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=2987
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label             | Observing Template | Science Target           |
| :---------------- | :----------------- | :----------------------- |
| Full MIRI only    | MIRI Imaging       | (1) NGC-0253             |
| MIRI Background   | MIRI Imaging       | (2) NGC-0253-BACKGROUND |

## ABSTRACT

We propose to survey mid-IR emission from the the whole disk of the closest massive, star-forming southern galaxy: the prototypical spiral NGC 253. At the 3.6 Mpc distance to NGC 253, MIRI achieves 5 pc resolution in the PAH-tracing F770W band and 12 pc resolution in the continuum-dominated F2100W band, which allows the prospect (only possible in the closest galaxies) to resolve individual HII regions and ISM structures including molecular clouds and filaments. Pairing JWST with a unique full-galaxy 100 pointing VLT/MUSE map, we will measure resolved PAH and continuum profiles for > 6,500 HII regions. This will allow us to build a quantitative, data-driven model for the multiwavelength structure of HII regions as a function of powering luminosity and evolutionary state. Also building on investments by ALMA and MeerKAT, our survey will span from the gas-rich inner galaxy out to atomic-dominated regions analogous to the Solar Circle (rgal > 10 kpc), achieving a sharp view of the ISM over c. 300 kpc^2. The inclination of NGC 253 acts to our advantage here: we can easily distinguish individual regions and the inclined view gives access to vertical structure in the arms and bar. Overall, with a 22h investment, JWST can produce a revolutionary view of both HII region and neutral ISM structure that spans across the whole area of a prototypical spiral.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We observe a large MIRI mosaic with an 11x3 orientation. To avoid saturation, we manually exclude the center. The PA is fixed and then a row offset angle is specified to match the extent of optical spectral mapping and ALMA CO coverage of the disk. The result is that we cover the whole disk beyond to the Solar Circle analog in 33 fields. Regarding scheduling, we need a specific combination of row offset and PA to cover the target, and have specified one such combination in the submission. But if desired at Phase 2, we can adjust to a different PA + row offset combination in order to help with scheduling. We also target a background mosaic, linked in time and validated to be free of IR emission in IRAC and MIPS images. We target a 2x2 mosaic for the background using an identical strategy to the on-source observations. The four background fields mean that we can construct a single high S/N off image, which avoids any extra noise in the case of pixel-by-pixel background subtraction. As described in detail in the proposal, we picked the depths to detect individual star forming regions and ISM clouds, and have validated them against the PHANGS-JWST observing strategy (we expose slightly longer in F770W and the same in F2100W and target a nearer, brighter target). We also validate using the ETC that our observations detect the minimum intensity of the galaxy at > 10 S/N and that the maximum intensity in the image (outside the central field) does not saturate the image.