---
id: 3010
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Greg Sloan  Co-PI: Kathleen Kraemer"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "15.12/0"
program_title: "Spectroscopy of molecules and dust production in carbon stars"
type: "GO"
---
# 3010 - Spectroscopy of molecules and dust production in carbon stars
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3010
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                  | Observing Template                 | Science Target      |
| :--------------------- | :--------------------------------- | :------------------ |
| WBP 17 MRS             | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) WBP17           |
| KDM 1691 MRS           | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) KDM1691         |
| J050629 MRS            | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) SAGEMCJ050629   |
| WBP 29 MRS             | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) WBP29           |
| J051803 MRS            | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (5) SAGE1CJ051803   |
| J053441 MRS            | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (6) SAGEMCJ053441   |
| MSX LMC 220 MRS        | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (7) MSXLMC220       |
| MSX LMC 774 MRS        | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (8) MSXLMC774       |
| MSX LMC 736 MRS        | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (9) MSXLMC736       |

---

## ABSTRACT

We will observe nine carbon stars in the Large Magellanic Cloud with the Medium-Resolution Spectrometer (MRS) on MIRI. The spectral resolution and sensitivity of the MRS, coupled with the knowledge gained from recent infrared space telescopes, have created a unique opportunity. The proposed spectra will resolve the line structure within the mid-infrared absorption bands from the carbon-rich molecules which are the building blocks of the dust these stars form. The spectra will probe the chemistry and physical conditions in the molecular layer around each star. The sample covers the full range of molecular band strengths in relatively dust-free stars and the full range of mass-loss rates in stars with strong dust excesses. The spectra will probe the properties of the material from which dust condenses and test possible triggers of the final phase of strong mass loss that ends the lives of most stars.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The sample consists of 9 carbon stars in the LMC. The stars are chosen so that only one full-sky slew is required if they are observed together. All will be observed with the MIRI/MRS and have identical observing profiles: self-TA, and spectroscopy in all three grating settings with a four-point dither pattern (optimized for point sources).
The filter for TA varies depending on the brightness of the target. All observations utilize one integration and exposure per dither position, with the number of groups varying with the brightness of the target.
No simultaneous imaging or special requirements are requested.