---
id: 3045
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Andreas Faisst"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "56.93/0"
program_title: "Witnessing the Maturing of Teenage Galaxies at z = 4 – 6 with a Comprehensive UV - Optical - Sub-mm Benchmark Sample for the Community"
type: "GO"
---
# 3045 - Witnessing the Maturing of Teenage Galaxies at z = 4 – 6 with a Comprehensive UV - Optical - Sub-mm Benchmark Sample for the Community
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3045
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label (Observation Folder) | Observing Template       | Science Target        |
| :------------------------- | :----------------------- | :-------------------- |
| 1                          | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) DC-494763         |
| 2                          | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (2) DC-519281         |
| 3                          | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (3) DC-536534         |
| 4                          | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (4) DC-630594         |
| 5                          | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (5) DC-683613         |
| 6                          | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (6) DC-709575         |
| 7                          | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (7) DC-742174         |
| 8                          | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (8) DC-842313         |
| 9                          | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (9) DC-848185         |
| 10                         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (10) DC-873321        |
| 11                         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (11) DC-873756        |
| 12                         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (12) VC-5100541407    |
| 13                         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (13) VC-5100822662    |
| 14                         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (14) VC-5100994794    |
| 15                         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (15) VC-5101218326    |
| 16                         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (16) VC-5101244930    |
| 57                         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (57) DC-417567        |
| 18                         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (18) VC-5110377875    |

---

## ABSTRACT

With NIRSpec IFU observations of 18 representative main-sequence galaxies at z=4.4-5.7, we complete the highest-redshift kpc-resolved rest-frame UV to far-IR benchmark sample to study how the first galaxies mature and grow to become the galaxies we observe at later cosmic times.
Capitalizing on more than 10 years of observations with ALMA and other observatories, and combined with the newest JWST imaging data, all 18 galaxies have
(i) high (<0.2") and low (>0.5”) resolution ALMA sub-mm observations providing C+ and dust continuum measurements on kpc and extended scales
(ii) optical JWST/NIRCam imaging probing their optical continuum, and
(iii) other ancillary data including rest-frame UV imaging and spectroscopy.

The proposed NIRSpec IFU observations add crucial spectroscopy of all main optical emission lines to this sample to constrain key properties at kpc-scales (0.1-0.2”), including stellar masses, star-formation histories, dust attenuation, kinematics, photoionization, metallicity, and other chemical properties. With these kpc-resolution matched observations, we will jointly observe stars, gas and dust to
(i) study how and where stars are formed,
(ii) analyze in detail the interstellar medium, and
(iii) explore and constrain the diverse dust properties and dust production mechanisms.

To-date, this is the only sample with kpc-resolution multi-wavelength photometric and spectroscopic observations from rest-frame UV to far-IR at these redshifts, hence it will have a long-lasting impact on our understanding of galaxies living in the midst of a transformational phase between primordial and mature galaxy evolution shortly after the epoch of reionization.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This program targets 18 high-redshift spectroscopically confirmed galaxies at 4.4 < z < 5.7 with kpc-resolution ALMA observations and JWST/NIRCam imaging in F115W, F150W, F277W, F444W. We propose to obtain NIRSpec IFU observation in the G235M/F170LP and G395M/F290LP configurations with the goal to measure all major rest-frame optical emission lines for all of the galaxies to infer properties such as star formation histories, metallicites, electron densities, ionization properties and other fundamental chemical properties. Furthermore, the IFU capability will be used to measure these properties on a kpc resolved scale at 0.1”.

This sample will be of tremendous importance for the community and we anticipate wide engagement. We therefore forgo any proprietary time on this program to share these observations with the community as soon as possible to maximize the science output and to encourage follow up observations with other facilities.

The integrations per target vary from 15 minutes to 2 hours and are computed to observe the [OII] (in G235M) and [NII] (in G395M) emission lines at a spectrally and spatially integrated S/N > 5. We implement a 2-point dither using the positions 1 and 2 from the LARGE SPARSE-CYCLING pattern for optimal sub-pixel sampling. We maximize the number of groups for these faint sources as recommended. We use NRSIRS2RAPID for most sources except for the faintest sources requiring exposures of 2 hours for which we use NRSIRS2 to avoid data volume issues.

We request one WATA TA for a multi-component galaxy (DC-848185) that runs the risk to be close to the edge of the IFU. We use a star at F140W mag ~20.5AB that is 18" from the IFU center. For the V3PAs of ~100 degrees (two date ranges available), the star is between the IFU and S1600A1 aperture, hence a telescope slew of only 32"- 18"=14" is necessary. For the other V3PA of~300 degrees (available for one date range). The other galaxies are compact relative to the IFU field-of-view (mostly < 0.5"), hence we do not request active target acquisition. We request a VERIFY ONLY verification image (MSA "ALL OPEN" configuration with filter F140X) to verify the absolute pointing of the observations.
There are no special requirements for these observations.