---
id: 3050
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Paul Goldsmith"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "22.94/0"
program_title: "A Hot View of Cold Gas"
type: "GO"
---
# 3050 - A Hot View of Cold Gas
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3050
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                      | Observing Template                 | Science Target                    |
| :------------------------- | :--------------------------------- | :-------------------------------- |
| Background                 | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) background                    |
| TAURUS-DARK-CLOUD-EDGE0    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (20) TAURUS-DARK-CLOUD-EDGE0      |
| TAURUS-DARK-CLOUD-EDGE5    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (25) TAURUS-DARK-CLOUD-EDGE5      |
| TAURUS-DARK-CLOUD-PEAK0    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (30) TAURUS-DARK-CLOUD-PEAK0      |
| TAURUS-DARK-CLOUD-PEAK5    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (35) TAURUS-DARK-CLOUD-PEAK5      |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose to carry out MRS observations of molecular hydrogen (H2) in a region at the edge of the Taurus molecular cloud to investigate turbulent dissipation (TD). H2, the main gas component of the star-forming interstellar medium, has largely evaded detection in molecular clouds due to its lack of permanent electric dipole moment and wide energy level spacing. Even its lowest rotational transitions require higher energy collisions than those at molecular clouds temperatures, but can be excited in regions of intense TD. The Spitzer detection of H2 emission in the proposed region indicates temperatures far in excess of what could be produced by standard heating sources. JWST offers, for the first time, angular resolution and sensitivity sufficient to resolve the expected scale size of TD regions. By measuring the flux and distribution of H2 rotational emission, we will determine the rate of TD and its importance for heating molecular regions and thereby controlling the rate of star formation. Models predict SNR>10 H2 detection in the 0.25" (0.0002 pc) MRS pixels. Two 4x4 mosaics of the S(1) line (a total FoV of 21"x25") will fully sample the TD regions in two representative environments. The huge resolution improvement provided by JWST will allow the first definitive observation of TD and will be a significant step forward in understanding the turbulence regulation of star formation, and hence the evolution of galaxies. The TD in Taurus should not be unique, but this is a favorable region to isolate TD-produced H2 emission. Thus, if successful, the proposed observations promise a view in JWST's infrared window of 'hot' gas in previously assumed 'cold' molecular clouds.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This proposal focuses on observation of emission from the lower rotational transitions of molecular hydrogen (H2). We plan to detect two H2 lines, S(1) at 17.04 microns and S(2) at 12.2 microns, using MRS Channel 3 sub-band C and A, respectively. In this program we request MRS exposures of only two sub-bands, i.e., A and C. We employ a 4x4 mosaicing of MRS sub-band C pointings to cover S(1) in a combined FoV of 21"x25". In each one of the MRS pointings, we adopt a detector setup of 12 groups per integration and 2-pt dither pattern reaching an exposure time of 573 sec. We take 1 deep MRS sub-band A pointing to detect the fainter S(2) line, using a detector setup of 80 groups per integration and 4 integrations in total. This forms an efficient "wedding cake" strategy for our proposed MRS observations. We have identified appropriate point sources for MRS target acquisition. We propose simultaneous MIRI imaging data on two targets in the adjacent region to study their silicate absorption using one silicate band (F1000W), two PAH band (F770W and F1130W), and two continuum bands (F560W and F1280W).

The target region is in the Taurus molecular cloud boundary between dense molecular and diffuse atomic gas, where Spitzer observations indicated H2 emission far stronger than could be produced by standard heating sources. The vastly higher JWST angular resolution and superior sensitivity will allow us to resolve the scale size of turbulent dissipation (TD) regions and for the first time determine whether TD is the additional heating source that provides support for molecular clouds against gravitational collapse.