---
id: 3055
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: R. Tully"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "46.83/22.06"
program_title: "A TRGB Calibration of Surface Brightness Fluctuations"
type: "GO"
---
# 3055 - A TRGB Calibration of Surface Brightness Fluctuations
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3055
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
1.  **List of the Labels, the corresponding Observing Template and the Science Targets:**

    | Label         | Observing Template | Science Target      |
    | :------------ | :----------------- | :------------------ |
    | NGC1380       | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) NGC-1380        |
    | NGC1399       | NIRCam Imaging     | (2) NGC-1399        |
    | NGC1404       | NIRCam Imaging     | (3) NGC-1404        |
    | M84-NGC4374   | NIRCam Imaging     | (4) MESSIER-084     |
    | M86-NGC4406   | NIRCam Imaging     | (5) MESSIER-086     |
    | M49-NGC4472   | NIRCam Imaging     | (6) MESSIER-049     |
    | M87-NGC4486   | NIRCam Imaging     | (7) MESSIER-087     |
    | M89-NGC4552   | NIRCam Imaging     | (8) MESSIER-089     |
    | M59-NGC4621   | NIRCam Imaging     | (9) MESSIER-059     |
    | M60-NGC4649   | NIRCam Imaging     | (10) MESSIER-060    |
    | NGC4697       | NIRCam Imaging     | (11) NGC-4697       |
    | NGC1549       | NIRCam Imaging     | (12) NGC-1549       |
    | NGC3379       | NIRCam Imaging     | (13) MESSIER-105    |
    | NGC4636       | NIRCam Imaging     | (14) NGC-4636       |

## ABSTRACT

    If the holy grail of a 1% measurement of the Hubble constant from measurements of galaxy distances and velocities is to be achieved, it will be essential to complement the current effort based on Population I star Cepheid and Type Ia supernova measurements. An alternate path that promises comparable accuracy involves the Population II route through tip of the red giant branch (TRGB) and surface brightness fluctuation (SBF) distances. This path requires implementation of 4 steps: (1) parallax zero-point calibration of TRGB, (2) transfer of the TRGB calibration to SBF, (3) full vetting of the SBF methodology, and (4) exploitation of SBF to a large sample at large distances.
    The current program addresses the second step: the connection between TRGB and SBF distance scales. These two methodologies are physically connected; the constancy of energy release from the brightest stars on the red giant branch when degenerate helium cores commence burning to carbon. With TRGB, the individual brightest RGB stars are observed; with SBF, the unresolved mottling caused by these stars is recorded. In detail, metallicity-age effects are such that optimal passbands and positioning of targets are different for TRGB and SBF measurements. In the case of TRGB, there is relative constancy at low metallicities in F090W and fields in halos are favored where low metallicity stars are dominant. With SBF, there is relative constancy at high metallicities in the F150W passband and such stars are dominant in the centers of the E-S0 systems to be given attention. With the extended spatial coverage of NIRCam, the observations required for TRGB and SBF studies can be acquired simultaneously.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

    Primary observations are made with NIRCam using the SW F090W and F150W filters, with roughly 80% of the exposure time devoted to the F090W passband. Simultaneous observations are made through the LW filters F277W and F356W. In all cases, the NIRCam positioning is such that there is simultaneous coverage of the core and the halo of the target galaxies.
    All observations use full subarrays and small 4-point dithers.
    With 11 of the 14 targets, secondary observations will be made with NIRISS camera using the F090W and F150W filters. These observations will impose constraints on the positioning of the NIRCam and NIRISS cameras.