---
id: 3073
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Marco Castellano"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "19.33/10.1"
program_title: "Spectroscopic confirmation of an unexpected population of bright galaxies at cosmic dawn"
type: "GO"
---
# 3073 - Spectroscopic confirmation of an unexpected population of bright galaxies at cosmic dawn
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3073
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                      | Observing Template               | Science Target                     |
| :------------------------- | :------------------------------- | :--------------------------------- |
| PA 30 - V4 obs5 1          | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (14) A2744_NIRSpec v4 MSA2 obs5    |
| PA 31.4966 - V4 obs9 1     | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (16) A2744_NIRSpec_v4_MSA2_obs9    |
| PA 30 - V4 obs8 1          | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (15) A2744_NIRSpec v4 MSA2 obs8    |
| PA 175 - V21 obs10 3       | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (8) A2744_NIRSpec v21 obs10        |
| PA 175 - V21 obs11 6       | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (9) A2744_NIRSpec v21 obs11        |
| PA 175 - V21 obs12 1       | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (10) A2744_NIRSpec v21 obs12       |

---

## ABSTRACT

The discovery of a large number of bright galaxies at z>10 in the first JWST NIRCam fields is questioning our understanding of galaxy evolution at cosmic dawn. The surprisingly high number density compared to theoretical models may imply that the evolution of early star formation is decoupled from the evolution of dark matter halos. Spectroscopic validation of the photometric selections and an assessment of the role of cosmic variance on early UV LF estimates are needed to confirm these findings. The present proposal will clarify these issues by targeting the field behind the cluster Abell-2744 where the most remarkable examples of this unexpected population have been reported. We will observe with NIRSpec PRISM six robust candidates at z~9-12. The sample includes GHZ1/GLASS-z10 at z~10-11 and GHZ2/GLASS-z12 at z~12-12.5, that stand out for their brightness and robustness assessed by several independent investigations, and four robust candidates that possibly form an overdensity at z~10 together with GHZ1/GLASS-z11. The proposed observations will secure the redshift and SFR of the targets with SNR>5-10 measurements of both their Lyman break and [OII]3727 line, while obtaining deep limits on Ly-alpha and on UV emission lines. JWST spectra will confirm this new population, assess the presence of an overdensity at z~10 and of early ionized bubbles in the field and detect whether the objects host an AGN or extreme stellar populations. Coordinated six-band NIRCam parallel observations on two flanking fields will extend the selection of z>9 galaxies in the region and the mapping of the potential overdensity at z~10.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We request JWST NIRSpec CLEAR/PRISM observations covering the entire UV rest frame range of the six targets. The NIRSpec spectra will measure at high significance the region of the Ly-alpha enabling a robust (SNR>5-10) measurement of the Lyman break and of the line, if present. The [OII]3727 line, whose flux has been estimated under conservative assumptions, will be detected at SNR>5. Similarly, any UV emission line with EW>5AA will be detected at SNR>5. The detection of a break will be sufficient as a spectroscopic confirmation of their redshift, while the [OII]3727 line will also enable measurement of the SFR of the sources. The potential detection of the Ly-alpha line, whose intrinsic emission is expected to be prominent in these bright objects, would point to the presence of a reionized region around them and would be an extremely important probe of the status of IGM at still unexplored redshifts. The Ly-alpha region is always within the wavelength range probed by NIRSpec prism for all sources. Detection of the UV rest-frame lines CIV, HeII, OIII] and CIII], will constrain the presence of AGN or hard-ionizing populations. We define our strategy on the basis of the continuum flux and slope measured from NIRCam photometry exploiting the most up-to-date calibrations.
We adopt the readout pattern NRSIRS2, standard 3-shutter "slits" and a 3-point nodding. We require two NIRSpec MOS pointings whose overlap ensures that all sources will reach the SNR requested for our science goals. We divide the observation of each pointing in three visits to enable the six-band coordinated parallel NIRCam observations on flanking fields as described below. Assuming medium background at the position of the field, we reach our science goals with three visits of 1 integrations per exposure, with 3 exposures (one per nod positions) of 30 groups each. The total exposure time is of 6567 s per visit, corresponding to a total charged time of 19.3 hours including overheads.
The first pointing will observe candidates GHZ1, GHZ2, GHZ4 and GHZ9, while the second pointing will observe the close pair GHZ7-GHZ8 which lies in the northernmost part of the field, while re-observing GHZ4 and GHZ9. The inclusion of GHZ4 and GHZ9 in both pointings ensures the requested SNR on the two faintest targets in the sample.
The Aperture PA range needs to be slightly restricted in order to cover all the six candidates with two pointings while including the faintest ones (GHZ4 and GHZ9) in both. In particular, pointing one must have 20<PA<55 or 162<PA<170, while pointing two must have 50<PA<55 or 165<PA<185.
The NIRCam coordinated parallel observations will cover two flanking fields outside the area currently covered by JWST. The three NIRSpec visits per pointing will observe the F115W+F277W, F150W+F356W and F200W+F444W filter pairs, with 6055.538 sec. science time each. The final depth in 0.2 arcsec apertures on point sources will be of mag=29.8 at SNR=2 in the F115W band, and mag~28.0-28.5 at SNR=10 for the other bands.