---
id: 3087
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Coronagraphy"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Bin Ren"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "5.91/0"
program_title: "Reaching ~0.1 arcsec inner working angle for NIRCam Coronagraphic imaging"
type: "GO, Calibration"
---
# 3087 - Reaching ~0.1 arcsec inner working angle for NIRCam Coronagraphic imaging
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3087
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                        | Observing Template                | Science Target |
| :--------------------------- | :-------------------------------- | :------------- |
| HR-4796A Roll 1 Dithe ral    | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging      | (1) HR-4796A   |
| HR-4796A Roll 2 Dithe ral    | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging      | (1) HR-4796A   |
| PSF Dither al                | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging      | (2) HR-4735    |

---

## ABSTRACT

Depending on the physical sizes of the coronagraphic round masks on NIRCam, they can image the surrounding environments of central bright sources down to ~0.4 arcsec inner working angle (IWA). Nevertheless, to image closer-in regions, the roll restriction of JWST poses fundamental limits on the coverage of bar masks. With the established on-sky measurement of the ~1.1 mas pointing stability of JWST, we can push beyond the IWA for the NIRCam round masks.
By incrementally dithering along the hexagonal direction of the masks, and with carefully designed exposure times, we could image the surroundings of central sources down to 0.1 arcsec or less. We propose to perform such an instrumental calibration exploration for the MASK210R occulter of NIRCam, and thus push the supported IWA to one that supercedes the stated values. Using a total of 1.5 hours of on-target exposure for the prototypical debris ring around HR 4796A and its point spread function star, we expect to recover the minor axis of the ring at a radius of ~0.15 arcsec. Upon the completion of this program, we will provide NIRCam technical report to establish formal guidelines in using this mode for future users. By establishing a ~0.1 arcsec IWA for NIRCam, we will provide the access to close-in planets, close-in substructures (both circumstellar and circum-quasar): all these regions are where we have identified evidence for planet-disk interactions or circumnuclear structures, which are hidden with other high-contrast imagers or ALMA but uniquely accessible by JWST.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Using a total of 1.5 hours of on-target exposure for the prototypical, well-characterized, debris ring around HR 4796A and its point spread function star, we expect to recover the minor axis of the ring at a radius of ~0.15 arcsec. Upon the completion of this program, we will provide NIRCam instrumental science report to establish formal guidelines in using this mode for future users.
For HR 4796A, we will observe it with two JWST rolls with an angular roll separation of 10-14 deg. In each roll, we dither the telescope along a hexagonal pattern from 0.1 arcsec to 0.2 arcsec, with different exposure times at 12 different dithering locations, to reduce photon noise near the central star and avoid detector saturation. By combining the two-roll observations, we will minimize the persistent noise from data reduction.
For the reference star HR 4735, it is carefully chosen in existing HST (and confirmed in JWST wavelengths) observations to empirically capture the point spread function (PSF) of HR 4796A. By obtaining an identical dithering strategy, we will ensure the maximum similarity of the central sources' coronagraphic PSFs for both stars.