---
id: 3117
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Anna-Christina Eilers  Co-PIs: Jorryt Matthee, Rohan Naidu, and Frederick Davies"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "20.9/0"
program_title: "Mapping Quasar Light Echoes with Lyman-alpha Forest Tomography during the Epoch of Reionization"
type: "GO"
---
# 3117 - Mapping Quasar Light Echoes with Lyman-alpha Forest Tomography during the Epoch of Reionization
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3117
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                                       | Observing Template              | Science Target                      |
| :------------------------------------------ | :------------------------------ | :---------------------------------- |
| J1148_PAfixed_left_v4 2, J1148_PAfixed_right_v4 2 | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (1) catalog_J1148_phaseII_v3 |

---

## ABSTRACT

The ultraviolet radiation of luminous high-redshift quasars within the Epoch of Reionization carves out large bubbles of highly ionized intergalactic gas in the quasars' environments, making the otherwise opaque Lyman-alpha (Lya) forest highly transparent at redshifts near to the systemic redshift of the quasar, which is known as the proximity effect. In this proposal we aim to leverage the unique capabilities of JWST's NIRSpec/MSA to observe an overdensity of spectroscopically confirmed, bright galaxies in the background of two z>6 highly luminous quasars at close projected distances, in order to tomographically map the quasars' ionized regions for the first time by means of the transverse proximity effect. These observations will uniquely reveal the geometry of the quasar's ionization cone, and constrain its opening angle and obscuration. Additionally, the extent of the ionized regions, also known as the quasars' light echoes, provide a model-independent constraint on the quasar's age based on the light travel time, which will enable new insights on the puzzle of the early growth of supermassive black holes. Simultaneously, the quasars' highly ionized regions provide a unique laboratory to study the intrinsic ionizing properties of high-redshift galaxies without absorption by the IGM. By measuring the unattenuated line profiles of the Lya emission combined with a first census of high-ionization UV emission lines for ~60 galaxies at 5.7<z<7, our proposed observations aim to finally reveal the elusive protagonists that reionize the universe.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We target bright (m_AB<27 mag in F115W) galaxies in two high-redshift (z>6), luminous quasar fields using NIRSpec/MSA. The targeted galaxies are spectroscopically confirmed by previous NIRCam/WFSS observations and are at redshifts 5.7<z<7.0, i.e. in the foreground (within the quasars' proximity zones) and background of the two quasars (at z=6.327 and z=6.4189).

In order to obtain a spatially well distributed sample of galaxies required for our science goals we need two NIRSpec/MSA configurations per quasar field. Using the APT's MSA Planning Tool we first assign weights to all ~120 spectroscopically confirmed galaxies at 5.7<z<7.0 in the quasar fields (1st priority to bright background sources, 2nd priority to bright galaxies within the proximity zone) and determine the best PA for our observations. In total we can observe 31-35 galaxies per field.

We choose the medium resolution grating + filter G140M/F070LP, which provides continuous wavelengths coverage between 0.70–1.27 m with a resolution of R~1000. For Lyman-alpha at the quasars' redshifts at approximately 0.9 m, the resolution is slightly lower, i.e. R~700, corresponding to a pixel scale of v~420 km/s. This resolution will enable us to resolve flux transmission within the Lyman-alpha forest of background galaxies with approximately 2-16 spectral pixels (depending on the pathlengths with high flux transmission), as well as de-blend the low EW of the UV emission lines and Lya emission of high-redshift galaxies.

Using the ETC we estimate that we need approximately 7.4 hours on source to obtain SNR~2 per resolution element for a galaxy of m_AB~26.5 mag, which corresponds to the 20% brightest galaxies in our sample. This will enable us to obtain a >3 sigma detection of the transverse proximity effect in four independent radial and azimuthal bins, allowing constraints on the extent and geometry of the quasar's ionzied region.

We chose 100 groups per integration, and adapt the recommended dither pattern with 3 nods in the shutter slitlets. These observations are duplicated six times, in order to achieve the required exposure time per MSA configuration.

We will use the readout mode NRSIRS2RAPID for its improved noise performance.

We will obtain target confirmation images, with 5 groups per integration, which will result in >3 sigma detections even for the faintest sources on slits (m_AB~28 mag).