---
id: 3131
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Josefin Larsson  Co-PIs: Margaret Meixner and Claes Fransson"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "18.87/0"
program_title: "The nature of the compact object in SN 1987A"
type: "GO"
---
# 3131 - The nature of the compact object in SN 1987A
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3131
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label         | Observing Template     | Science Target        |
| :------------ | :--------------------- | :-------------------- |
| G140H/F100LP  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) SN-1987A-NIRSPEC  |
| G235H         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) SN-1987A-NIRSPEC  |
| G395H         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) SN-1987A-NIRSPEC  |
| G140H/F070LP  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) SN-1987A-NIRSPEC  |

---

## ABSTRACT

JWST GTO observations of Supernova (SN) 1987A in Cycle 1 have dramatically improved our understanding of this iconic event. The observations show the presence of narrow lines from highly ionised argon at the very center of the remnant, which provides the first clear electromagnetic signal from the compact object created in the explosion. However, the nature of the ionising emission and the properties of the compact object are poorly constrained from the existing medium-resolution NIRSpec observations. We propose to observe SN 1987A with the high-resolution mode of the NIRSpec IFU to determine the properties of the compact object. This will be done by searching for additional weak lines from the compact object and by measuring the detailed line profile and temporal evolution of the detected [Ar VI] line. Only JWST offers spatially resolved spectroscopy with sufficient angular resolution to detect faint narrow lines overlapping with the ejecta emission. The observations will also be used to determine the 3D distribution of ejecta, which reveals the properties of the explosion itself, and to follow the time evolution of the shock interaction. SN 1987A will be the first SN where the properties of the progenitor star, neutrino burst, explosion, and resulting compact object can be connected.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will observe SN 1987A at high resolution with the NIRSpec IFU to determine the nature of the compact object and map the 3D morphology of the ejecta and time evolution. Only NIRSpec has sufficient angular resolution and wavelength coverage to achieve these goals.
Observations with the NIRSpec IFU consist of the following grating/filter combinations: G140H/F070LP, G140H/F100LP, G235H/F170LP, G395H/F290LP. A small four-point dither cycling pattern will be used. We also require leakcal observations in all gratings at the same dither positions and using the same exposure parameters as for the data obtained when the IFU aperture is open. This will ensure the best subtraction of contaminating emission arising from leakage through the MSA.

---