---
id: 3134
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Benjamin Gompertz"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "22.6/0"
program_title: "The Origins of Hostless Short Gamma-ray Bursts"
type: "GO"
---
# 3134 - The Origins of Hostless Short Gamma-ray Bursts
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3134
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label         | Observing Template | Science Target      |
| :------------ | :----------------- | :------------------ |
| 061201        | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) GRB061201       |
| 090515        | NIRCam Imaging     | (2) GRB090515       |
| 091109B       | NIRCam Imaging     | (3) GRB091109B      |
| 110112A       | NIRCam Imaging     | (4) GRB110112A      |
| 130912A       | NIRCam Imaging     | (5) GRB130912A      |
| 130912A WOPR  | NIRCam Imaging     | (5) GRB130912A      |
| 150423A       | NIRCam Imaging     | (6) GRB150423A      |

---

## ABSTRACT

Short gamma-ray bursts (SGRBs) are explosive transients that can be seen at cosmological distances. They have been confirmed to be driven by compact object mergers and to produce kilonovae, the radioactive signature of heavy element nucleosynthesis. SGRBs are therefore valuable markers for r-process enrichment throughout the Universe, and for the rates and merger delay times of compact binaries through cosmic time. Because they fade fast, their redshifts must be derived via association with a likely host galaxy, whose redshift is measured as a proxy. However, in a number of cases no suitable host is seen to HST depths, despite precise (sub-arcsecond) localisations of the burst position. This could indicate that the compact binary travelled a substantial distance from its host before merging, or that there is a faint and/or distant host galaxy as-yet undetected at the burst location. Here, we propose NIRCam photometric observations with JWST designed to disentangle these possibilities by searching for faint hosts in the redshift range 2< z < 3.5, which is poorly constrained by the available HST observations. Either outcome - highly kicked or high redshift - has profound implications for our understanding of the evolution of the Universe, encompassing binary evolution, natal kicks, merger delay times, gravitational-wave rates and follow-up strategy, r-process enrichment, and galaxy evolution.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This proposal targets 6 nominally hostless short gamma-ray bursts to attempt to uncover faint hosts at the burst location. These observations will determine whether each GRB has a faint host that was unconstrained to HST limits, or if it was kicked a substantial distance from an already detected host galaxy. The targets are GRBs 061201, 090515, 091109B, 110112A, 130912A and 150423A.

Targets are to be observed with NIRCam. Observations will be taken in the long wavelength channel F322W2 filter, and the short wavelength channel F150W2 filter. Each target observation will consist of 2 integrations per exposure, with 5 groups per integration. 4 exposures per specification are requested, distributed in an INTRASCA Large 4-point dither pattern to maximise astrometric precision for our small (< 10") targets. We utilise module B and the full sub-array with a DEEP8 readout pattern to maximise sensitivity. The total exposure time per target is 7601.63s.