---
id: 3149
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Pieter van Dokkum"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "10.89/0"
program_title: "A possible runaway supermassive black hole at the tip of a 62 kpc long linear feature"
type: "GO"
---
# 3149 - A possible runaway supermassive black hole at the tip of a 62 kpc long linear feature
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3149
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label           | Observing Template          | Science Target   |
| :-------------- | :-------------------------- | :--------------- |
| IFU observation | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (3) Group WAKE   |

---

## ABSTRACT

It has long been predicted that supermassive black holes (SMBHs) can be ejected from their host galaxies, through gravitational recoil or a three-body interaction after multiple galaxy mergers. So far no runaway SMBHs have been securely identified. A new candidate was recently serendipitously found in HST/ACS data. F606W and F814W images, combined with Keck spectra, show a striking linear feature at z=0.964 with a length of 62 kpc. Strong and complex emission lines are detected all along the feature, including a bright knot of [OIII] emission at the tip. The linear feature has been interpreted as the wake behind a runaway SMBH, with the observed continuum and line emission produced by shocks and star formation in the circumgalactic medium. Here we propose to obtain spatially-resolved spectroscopy of the region near the tip, using the NIRSpec IFU. The spectra cover the important diagnostic lines [OIII], Halpha, [NII], and [SII]. The primary goal is to search for the expected highly red- or blue-shifted broad emission lines that are associated with the SMBH itself, either from bound gas that escaped with it or from accretion onto the black hole. A detection would be definitive evidence for the existence of runaway supermassive black holes, fifty years after they were predicted. A secondary goal is to map the morphology of the ionized circumgalactic medium.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The primary goal of the program is to search for broad emission lines associated with a runaway supermassive black hole. The location of the black hole is assumed to be inside the 0.4 arcsec tip of a striking linear feature.

The observations are divided over two target positions, WAKEPOS1 and WAKEPOS2. These are symmetrically placed on each side of the linear feature, 0.5 arcsec downstream from the tip. The tip will be inside the IFU FOV for all roll angles, and observed on different parts of the detector for WAKEPOS1 and WAKEPOS2.

At each of the two target positions a 4 point dither pattern will be used to improve sampling.

The NIRSpec IFU will be used with the G140M/F100LP grating/filter combination. Each of the 8 integrations consists of 50 groups. The NRSIRS2 readout pattern provides the lowest possible noise.

No target acquisition is required, but a verification image is taken at the end of the visit so that the precise pointing can be reconstructed.