---
id: 3153
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Feng Long"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "22.48/0"
program_title: "Why do some 50 Myr old stars still accrete?"
type: "GO"
---
# 3153 - Why do some 50 Myr old stars still accrete?
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3153
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
**1. List of the Labels, corresponding Observing Template, and Science Targets:**

| Folder Observation | Label | Observing Template               | Science Target                        |
| :----------------- | :---- | :------------------------------- | :------------------------------------ |
| 1                  |       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) WISEA-J080822.18-644357.3         |
| 2                  |       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) 2MASS-J05010082-4337102           |
| 3                  |       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) 2MASS-J02265658-5327032           |
| 10                 |       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (10) Group J0446AB                    |
| 11                 |       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (11) Group J0949AB                    |
| 8                  |       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (8) 2MASS-J06320799-6810419           |
| 9                  |       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (9) 2MASS-J15460752-6258042           |

## ABSTRACT

The outcome of planet formation is largely determined by how the disk dust and gas evolve. Recent studies have identified a new class of disks that surround late M type stars (>M4.5) at ages of 40-60 Myr and with spectroscopic evidence of active accretion. The strong infrared excess and broad H alpha emission lines are hallmarks of gas-rich primordial disks. Given the typical disk lifetime of 3-5 Myr, surviving for ~10 times longer is very surprising. If these are indeed primordial disks, their survival would revise our understanding of disk dissipation and planet formation around M dwarfs. On the other hand, their infrared excess levels are also consistent with a type of unusually dust-rich debris disks that are believed to have experienced a recent giant collision, along with more compatible ages. We propose to use MIRI/MRS to study the gas and dust content in these peculiar disks and to determine their evolutionary status. The detection of abundant C-bearing molecules with a high C/O ratio, characteristic of young M dwarf disk chemistry, would suggest a long-lived gas-rich disk, while the presence of a large amount of silica dust would point to a recent high-energy collision. Both scenarios will have important implications for planet formation, as the former provides clues for the build-up process of compact systems like TRAPPIST-1, while the latter dives into the active stage of terrestrial planet assembly.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This program aims at obtaining MIRI/MRS spectra for 9 old accreting M dwarf disks, using all three gratings to cover the full wavelength range from 5 to 28 micron. We are particularly interested in the 10 and 20 micron dust solid-state features and molecular gas emission lines at around 14 micron. Exposure times have been optimized to detect the fainter line emission. We use FAST readout for all but one faint sources. We include target acquistition for all sources and choose the standard 4 point dither as the emission is expected to be unresolved.