---
id: 3154
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Eva-Maria Ahrer"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "10.36/0"
program_title: "Testing the C/O Ratio Prediction for Hot Jupiters from Disk-Free Migration"
type: "GO"
---
# 3154 - Testing the C/O Ratio Prediction for Hot Jupiters from Disk-Free Migration
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3154
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                               | Observing Template             | Science Target |
| :---------------------------------- | :----------------------------- | :------------- |
| NIRSpec transit observation WASP-94Ab | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) WASP-94A   |

## ABSTRACT

Almost three decades have passed since the first discovery of a hot Jupiter and many have been discovered since then. However, their formation and migration mechanisms are not yet understood and we lack methods that can clearly determine whether a hot Jupiter has moved through either disk-free or disk-driven migration or has formed in situ. With this programme we will observe a hot Jupiter that orbits a star in a binary system in a misaligned and retrograde way. Theory predicts that it must have migrated via disk-free migration, which in turn notably restricts the value the carbon-to-oxygen (C/O) ratio of the atmosphere can be. We will test this C/O prediction by measuring the abundances of carbon- and oxygen-bearing molecules in the atmosphere of WASP-94Ab in one transit, utilizing JWST's unique capabilities to provide high-precision time-series observations in the infrared wavelength range. We will determine the C/O ratio of WASP-94Ab and be able to confirm or refute the theory prediction. If it matches, we will provide the first atmospheric characterization of a hot Jupiter that we know must have migrated via disk-free migration. If it does not match, we will provide evidence for other processes in planet formation theory that have been missed so far.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will observe one transit of hot Jupiter WASP-94Ab using the G395H/F290LP combination on the NIRSpec instrument in BOTS (Bright Object Time Series) mode. This requires a S1600A1 aperture with a fixed 1.6"x1.6" field of view. We will use the SUB2048 subarray and the NRSRAPID readout mode. For our integrations we will use 21 groups which corresponds to a maximum of 80% saturation and a signal-to-noise (SNR) of 80-220 (verified by the ETC) for the stellar spectrum. 1451 exposures correspond to an observation of 8h, which includes the transit duration (4.5h), a settling time of 15min on top of a minimum baseline of 1h pre- and post-transit and a 1h window for scheduling flexibility. As our target is bright (K mag: 8.9), therefore we will conduct target acquisition (TA) on an alternative target to avoid saturation. For TA we will utilize the Wide Aperture Target Acquisition (WATA) mode on a target that is within the visit splitting distance (20550897-3408314). We have selected it using the 2MASS source catalogue and used the Gaia DR3 proper motions to ensure they are suitable for accurate TA (see comments on the target). The ETC was utilized to determine the setup required: SUB32 subarray, NRSRAPID readout mode, 3 groups per integration, F140X filter. This will result in an SNR of 48.5 for the TA target (H mag: 14.573). We will double check this setup with scheduling prior to the observation to ensure success.