---
id: 3162
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Simon Glover"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "12.83/0"
program_title: "Does star formation require molecular gas?"
type: "GO"
---
# 3162 - Does star formation require molecular gas?
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3162
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label        | Observing Template                    | Science Target      |
| :----------- | :------------------------------------ | :------------------ |
| IZW18-POS1   | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) IZW18-POS1      |
| IZW18-OFF    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) IZW18-OFFSET-BG |
| IZW18-POS2   | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) IZW18-POS2      |

## ABSTRACT

We propose to carry out a strong test of the hypothesis that star formation requires the presence of molecular gas. To do this, we will search for H2 rotational line emission from the extremely low metallicity star-forming dwarf galaxy I Zw 18 using the MIRI IFU. Successful detection of this emission will allow us to constrain the molecular gas mass in I Zw 18, enabling us to compare it with the predictions of the H2-regulated star formation model. Alternatively, non-detection of the lines will allow us to rule out the presence of any significant mass of H2, providing strong support for models in which the presence of H2 is not necessary for star formation.

In addition, because we require observations in all three grating settings to cover the H2 lines, our proposed observations will yield deep MIR spectra of I Zw 18 covering a broad range of wavelengths and including a number of nebular emission lines and PAH features. These observations will therefore enable a very broad range of additional science.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will observe I Zw 18 using the MIRI IFU. We will take science observations towards two pointings, one centred on I Zw 18 NW and the other on I Zw 18 SE. To allow for background subtraction, we will also observe an off position located far away from the galaxy.

Each pointing will involve observations with all three MIRI IFU sub-bands. During the MIRI IFU observations, we will obtain simultaneous observations with the MIRI imager, using the F560W, F1130W and F2100W filters. We adopt a standard 4-point dither pattern towards each pointing, with 1 exposure per dither position and 2 integrations per exposure. Read-out of the IFU will be done using the SLOWR1 pattern, in order to avoid hitting the data volume limit. Read-out of the simultaneous imaging will use the FASTR1 pattern.

We utilize POS-TARGS to perform offsets to a clean background field in detector-FOV coordinates. This allows us to offset in such a direction so as to align the MIRI imaging FOV on the target itself while the background IFU data are being collected. Doing so will allow us to obtain high quality, broad continuum and PAH (5.6, 11.3, and 21 micron) maps in MIRI simultaneous imaging, greatly increasing our ability to sample the changing starlight heating environment.