---
id: 3166
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Anna Ciurlo"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "14.0/0"
program_title: "Investigating the Role and the Physical State of Molecular Hydrogen in the Central Parsec of the Galaxy"
type: "GO"
---
# 3166 - Investigating the Role and the Physical State of Molecular Hydrogen in the Central Parsec of the Galaxy
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3166
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                  | Observing Template                 | Science Target           |
| :--------------------- | :--------------------------------- | :----------------------- |
| CND                    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) CND                  |
| CND BKG                | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) SKY                  |
| CC                     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) CC                   |
| CC BKG                 | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) SKY                  |
| CND                    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) CND                  |
| CND BKG                | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) SKY                  |
| CC                     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) CC                   |
| CC BKG                 | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) SKY                  |
| CC                     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) CC                   |
| CC BKG                 | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) SKY                  |
| CC - Repeat Obs 9      | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) CC                   |
| CC BKG - Repeat Obs 10 | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) SKY                  |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose to investigate the distribution, origin, and excitation of molecular hydrogen in the central parsec of our Galaxy. At this scale, the largest reservoir of matter close to the central supermassive black hole is the Circumnuclear Disk (CND). This torus of molecular material has an inner cavity which is UV-irradiated by a cluster of massive young stars surrounding the Galactic black hole. In such an extreme environment, molecular hydrogen is expected to be photodissociated or ionized, but copious H2 has been detected inside the inner cavity of the CND. The origin and excitation mechanism of this molecular hydrogen is unknown. Previous work was done with ro-vibrational lines, which are a limited probe as they only trace the hottest gas. We propose to observe several purely rotational emission lines of H2 with MIRS-MRS. These lines trace a larger fraction of H2 at warm temperatures. We plan to observe H2 both in the inner cavity and in the CND itself, in order to elucidate the excitation mechanism of H2 in both environments, investigate its origin, and compare the internal structure of the CND with existing models. This will allow us to understand the conditions of the gas (in the CND) that will eventually trigger a massive accretion event, and the region (the central cavity) where neutral gas if further along its way toward the black hole. Furthermore, star formation in this extreme environment occurred in the past but whether it is presently occurring is debated. We will be able to better constraint whether the conditions of the gas are suitable for star formation.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to observe the circumnuclear disk (CND) and its central cavity with MIRI-MRS, to investigate the state of the gas by observing its dominant neutral component (through purely rotational H2 lines) and the dust (through PAH features). This will allow us to understand the conditions of the gas in the largest reservoir of matter to the Galactic black hole (the CND) and in the region (the central cavity) where neutral gas can join the accretion flow and/or form stars under extreme circumstances.
We propose to observe two fields: one centered 3" South of Sgr A* (to characterize the central cavity), the other centered 17" North-East of Sgr A* (to characterize the CND). We request the use of MRS full band (i.e. both the MRSLONG and MRSSHORT detectors and all three wavelength ranges) to cover as many H2 and PAHs lines as possible. In order to map enough Each observation will consist of a 4-point dither and requires a separate sky observation to be taken in an uninterruptible sequence. We request a 2 by 2 mosaic and a 2 by 3 mosaic with a 10% overlap. We don't have any position angle requirement.