---
id: 3171
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Shubham Kanodia  Co-PIs: Jessica Libby-Roberts and Caleb Canas"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "132.39/0"
program_title: "Red Dwarfs and the Seven Giants: First Insights into the Atmospheres of Giant Exoplanets around M-dwarf Stars"
type: "GO"
---
# 3171 - Red Dwarfs and the Seven Giants: First Insights into the Atmospheres of Giant Exoplanets around M-dwarf Stars
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3171
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label             | Observing Template             | Science Target       |
| :---------------- | :----------------------------- | :------------------- |
| TOI-3984          | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) TOI-3984         |
| TOI-3984          | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) TOI-3984         |
| TOI-3984          | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) TOI-3984         |
| TOI-3757          | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (2) TOI-3757         |
| TOI-3757          | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (2) TOI-3757         |
| HATS-6            | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (3) HATS-6           |
| HATS-6            | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (3) HATS-6           |
| HATS-75           | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (4) HATS-75          |
| HATS-75           | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (4) HATS-75          |
| HATS-75           | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (4) HATS-75          |
| HATS-75           | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (4) HATS-75          |
| TOI-5293          | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (5) TOI-5293         |
| TOI-5293          | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (5) TOI-5293         |
| TOI-5293 repeat   | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (5) TOI-5293         |
| TOI-3714          | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (6) TOI-3714         |
| TOI-3714          | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (6) TOI-3714         |
| TOI-3714          | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (6) TOI-3714         |
| TOI-5205          | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (7) TOI-5205         |
| TOI-5205          | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (7) TOI-5205         |
| TOI-5205          | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (7) TOI-5205         |

---

## ABSTRACT

A primary science goal of JWST is to understand the atmospheres of other worlds and investigate how a planet's atmospheric composition can inform us about its formation and evolutionary history. Of particular interest is the recently-discovered sample of short-period, Jupiter-sized planets orbiting M-dwarfs, which present challenges to our current theories of planet formation. This new sample of planets also represents an extreme regime of planet formation that has not yet been probed in the context of atmospheric characterization. The path to understanding how these systems form therefore begins with a fundamental question: How do the atmospheres of these M-dwarf giant planets compare to giant planets orbiting Sun-like stars? Thanks to the large transit-depths and warm temperatures of M-dwarf giant planets, we can access the absorption features for both water and methane in the planet atmospheres. We therefore have the unique opportunity to observe this new sample of close-in giant planets orbiting M dwarfs with JWST to precisely characterize their atmospheric composition and metallicity, and compare them with their FGK host analogues. In this study, we will obtain transmission spectra of seven M-dwarf short-period Jupiters using the NIRSpec/PRISM to observe between 0.6-5.3 µm, a region where molecular features from water and methane are dominant, which we will use as tracers for atmospheric metallicity. Ultimately, this study will shed light on whether M-dwarf gas giants have similar formation and evolution pathways to their FGK counterparts.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

All targets will use NIRSpec with the PRISM to achieve full wavelength coverage from 0.6–5.3 µm. Our targets are faint enough to be acquired directly using WATA in a narrow filter (F110W). We will operate in bright object time-series (BOTS) mode, using the S1600A1 with the SUB512 subarray to maximize duty cycle and limit aperture losses and associated small variations from pointing jitter and drift. The optimal number of groups per integration and integrations per exposure are derived with PandExo and confirmed using the JWST exposure time calculator. We adopt a saturation threshold of 80% the well-depth, to prevent non-linearity in the detector response, when optimizing for the number of integrations and groups per integration. These observations are time-critical and must be centered on the transit of each planet. Our targets have transit periods <5 days and the events occur frequently in JWST Cycle 2. The transit ephemerides for all our targets are known precisely and have an uncertainty on the transit midpoint through July 1, 2024 of <3 minutes. The time needed to observe a single transit includes the full transit duration, a pre and post out-of-transit baseline that is at least 60-minutes but at most half the transit duration, a 60-minute window before the transit to allow for flexibility in scheduling, and a 30-minute window before transit to allow for instrument settling and stabilization. The baseline data are critical to identify ensure identify any potential systematics and correct for them. We apply a phase constraint to each target that satisfies our baseline requirements around mid-transit.