---
id: 3177
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging  NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Jiayi Sun  Co-PIs: Erik Rosolowsky and Adam Leroy"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "3.15/0.14"
program_title: "Beholding star cluster formation, feedback, and evolution with the 'Evil Eye'"
type: "GO"
---
# 3177 - Beholding star cluster formation, feedback, and evolution with the 'Evil Eye'
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3177
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label              | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :----------------- | :----------------- | :------------- |
| MIRI               | MIRI Imaging       | (1) M-64       |
| NIRCAM + MIRI-off | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) M-64       |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose NIRCam+MIRI multi-band imaging for the Evil Eye Galaxy (M64), a unique nearby merger-induced starburst system. We will uncover a large population of deeply embedded star clusters in the dusty, compact, inner disk of M64, where the high gas surface densities and complex orbital configurations provide very favorable conditions for massive cluster formation and survival. At the 4.4 Mpc distance to this target, NIRCam can resolve massive star clusters and the HII regions they power, yielding accurate size estimates and thus robust quantifications of the strength of various stellar feedback processes. Meanwhile, MIRI can map the multi-phase gas distribution down to the diffuse gas limit (< 10 Msun/pc^2) and resolve the filamentary gas structures that underlie and possibly fuel the dense, cluster-forming hubs. The proximity and compactness of M64 make it possible to address such a rich set of science goals regarding cluster formation, feedback, and evolution with only 3 hours of total charged time. With rich multiwavelength data in hand, this program will provide the last missing piece for a first synthesized study of star clusters, gas clouds, and HII regions in a unique, close-by, merger-driven starburst system.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We use NIRCam and MIRI imaging modes to observe the nearby merger-induced starburst galaxy, M64. The field of view (FoV) of both instruments is enough to cover in a single pointing the entire dusty inner disk, where nearly all star formation takes place in M64. The MIRI observation requires a PA constraint to ensure complete coverage of this area of interest. As this area spans much of the MIRI FoV, we also request a MIRI off-target pointing in parallel with the on-target NIRCam imaging to facilitate background subtraction. This additionally requires the NIRCam+MIRI-off and MIRI-on observations to be taken without interruption.
We choose a set of filters and determine the required exposure time according to the following specific aims: (1) to derive robust age, mass, and extinction for young star clusters, (2) to trace the filamentary gas structure down to the surface densities characteristic of the diffuse ISM, and (3) to capture the reprocessed stellar radiation by gas and dust in HII regions. For the NIRCam observations, we use only module B with a 4-point INTRAMODULEBOX dither and either BRIGHT1 (for broad/medium bands) or BRIGHT2 (for narrow bands) readout. The total integration times are 214.7s, 214.7s, 1073.7s, and 386.5s for the four filter pairs (F150W–F335M, F200W–F300M, F187N–F405N, F150W–F430M), respectively. For the MIRI observations, we use a 4-point dither and the FASTR1 readout mode. The total integration times are 66.6s, 111.0s, 188.7s, 144.3s for F770W, F1130W, F1000W, and F2100W, respectively. This setup minimizes the chances of saturation on the bright M64 nucleus.