---
id: 3181
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Yifan Zhou"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "15.92/0"
program_title: "Monitor a variable planetary mass companion with NIRSpec IFU"
type: "GO"
---
# 3181 - Monitor a variable planetary mass companion with NIRSpec IFU
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3181
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label   | Observing Template      | Science Target  |
| :------ | :---------------------- | :-------------- |
| TWA-28  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (3) TWA-28      |
| TWA-27  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (2) TWA-27-AB   |
| TWA-27  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (2) TWA-27-AB   |
| TWA-27  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (2) TWA-27-AB   |
| TWA-27  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (2) TWA-27-AB   |
| TWA-27  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (2) TWA-27-AB   |
| TWA-27  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (2) TWA-27-AB   |
| TWA-27  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (2) TWA-27-AB   |
| TWA-27  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (2) TWA-27-AB   |
| TWA-27  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (2) TWA-27-AB   |
| TWA-27  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (2) TWA-27-AB   |
| TWA-27  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (2) TWA-27-AB   |
| TWA-27  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (2) TWA-27-AB   |
| TWA-27  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (2) TWA-27-AB   |
| TWA-27  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (2) TWA-27-AB   |
| TWA-27  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (2) TWA-27-AB   |
| TWA-27  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (2) TWA-27-AB   |
| TWA-27  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (2) TWA-27-AB   |
| TWA-27  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (2) TWA-27-AB   |
| TWA-27  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (2) TWA-27-AB   |
| TWA-27  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (2) TWA-27-AB   |
| TWA-28  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (3) TWA-28      |

---

## ABSTRACT

Variability is prevalent among brown dwarfs and likely common in directly imaged exoplanets. Spectral variability has revealed 3D atmospheric structures and probed underlying atmospheric dynamics in brown dwarfs and wide-separated planetary-mass companions. Temporal spectral variations also induce significant uncertainties for interpreting spectral snapshots, underscoring an urgent need for precision spectral time series of directly imaged exoplanets. Observing spectral variability in directly imaged exoplanets has been proven to be challenging with ground-based AO instruments. JWST commissioning and ERS results show that NIRSpec IFU is an ideal instrument for precision high-contrast spectroscopic time-series observations.

We propose a pilot study to demonstrate the time-series observing capability of NIRSpec IFU. We identify 2M1207b, a known variable 4 Jupiter-mass companion, as the best target and craft a NIRSpec IFU PRISM monitoring campaign. We will jointly adopt reference star and spectral differential imaging to eliminate flux contamination from the host star and expect to achieve 0.1% light curve precision. The broad wavelength coverage and excellent photometric stability of JWST will allow us to unveil the cloud structures and probe spatial variations of CO-methane chemistry in a planetary atmosphere in unprecedented detail. We will also characterize possible systematic noise in IFU high-contrast time-series observations and build the foundation for an exoplanet monitoring survey. Our program will establish NIRSpec IFU as a powerful planet mapper and an essential instrument for probing clouds and circulation in planetary atmospheres.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We use NIRSpec IFU PRISM to monitor the planetary mass companion 2M1207b.

The program is composed of 22 observations. The first and the last observations target a PSF reference star TWA-28. The PSF will be used in reference-star differential imaging. The PSF reference exposures will be conducted using PRISM/CLEAR, group number of 10, integration number of 1, and a four-point dither. We observe the PSF reference at the beginning and the end of the time sequence to account for possible PSF evolution during the course of the observations.

Observations 2 to 21 are for the science target 2M1207Ab (TWA-27 AB). The companion and the host are separated by 0.78 arcsec. The NIRPSPEC IFU will include both sources in the field of view. The science exposures will be conducted using PRISM/CLEAR, group number of 10, integration number of 2, and a four-point dither. The twenty science exposures form a 12-hr baseline to cover one full rotation of 2M1207b.

We link the 22 observations using sequence observations, non-interruptible links to form a proper time sequence.