---
id: 3189
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Kate Su"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "17.61/0"
program_title: "The Nature of Mineralogical Dichotomy in Extreme Debris Disks"
type: "GO"
---
# 3189 - The Nature of Mineralogical Dichotomy in Extreme Debris Disks
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3189
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                      | Observing Template                     | Science Target      |
| :------------------------- | :------------------------------------- | :------------------ |
| MRS-RZPSC                  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (1) RZPSC           |
| MRS-J0605                  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (2) J0605           |
| MRS-J0609                  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (3) J0609           |
| MRS-J0611                  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (4) J0611           |
| MRS-J0611 - Repeat of Observation 4 | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (4) J0611           |
| MRS-J2043                  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (5) J2043           |
| MRS-J0925                  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (6) J0925           |
| MRS-J2301                  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (7) J2301           |
| MRS-J1213                  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (8) J1213           |
| MRS-J0712                  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (9) J0712           |
| MRS-J1044                  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (10) J1044          |
| MRS-HD166                  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (11) HD166          |

## ABSTRACT

The variable emission of young, extreme debris disks (EDDs), as monitored by warm Spitzer, provides a unique window to explore large-scale collisions in the terrestrial planet zone during the oligarchic and chaotic phases of planet formation. Some of these systems where Spitzer mid-infrared spectroscopy was obtained reveal an intriguing dichotomy in the dust mineralogy of impact-produced debris - one third of them show silica-rich fine dust, likely created from the evaporating bodies in a hyper-velocity giant collision, while the others show forsterite-rich fine dust, evidence for high-temperature thermal alteration, a condition commonly expected in major collisions of large asteroid-size bodies. The nature of this apparent mineralogical dichotomy is unknown. In this program, we will conduct a detailed mineralogical investigation for 11 newly identified EDDs that exhibit various degrees of infrared variability (indications of collisions between large bodies) revealed by WISE. The all-sky WISE data has substantially expanded the sample of EDDs over those found with Spitzer, and make possible for the first time meaningful comparative studies of their properties. Using MIRI/MRS mode, we will quantify the presence of silica dust in different polymorph forms that trace different levels of formation pressure, and directly connect the resulting impact conditions with the sizes of impact bodies (planetary embryos or large asteroids).

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

MIRI/MRS observations of 11 newly identified extreme debris disks to investigate the mineralogical dichotomy in the impact-produced debris. These high-quality spectra will be used to search for the presence of silica dust in different types of polymorphs condensed at different high temperature and pressure conditions. This new sample will more than double the current sample in studying impact-produced dust mineralogy in a statistically meaningful way, and make a giant leap in connecting infrared variability (proxies for the sizes of impacting bodies) to dust mineralogy.