---
id: 3215
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Daniel Eisenstein  Co-PI: Roberto Maiolino"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "135.46/103.09"
program_title: "Unveiling the Redshift Frontier with JWST"
type: "GO"
---
# 3215 - Unveiling the Redshift Frontier with JWST
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3215
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                   | Observing Template             | Science Target                        |
| :---------------------- | :----------------------------- | :------------------------------------ |
| REDSHIFT_FRONTIER       | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (1) 3215_deepjwst_trim2test1clean1 |
| JOFDHFDENv2.3           | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (2) 3215JOFDH                         |

---

## ABSTRACT

We will conduct a deep 6-filter medium-band JWST/NIRCam imaging survey designed to robustly identify galaxies at the redshift frontier, z>15. The abundance and properties of these infant galaxies are extremely sensitive to assumptions in models of galaxy formation and offer the opportunity for novel discoveries about the physics of the early Universe. We propose to reach a depth, 2 nJy (5-sigma, 0.1" radius), capable of detecting these galaxies in a wide range of scenarios. We argue that medium-band imaging from 1.62 to 3.35 microns is critical for isolating the sharp Ly-alpha dropout and separating these galaxies from mid-redshift contaminants. Our survey leverages 55 hrs of Cycle 1 wide-band GOODS-S observations and will produce a superb 14-band NIRCam data set for legacy science.

We will conduct this survey as Coordinated Parallels to deep NIRSpec multi-object spectroscopy. We will obtain exquisite spectroscopy, up to 59 hrs with the PRISM and 47 hrs with the G395M grating, of nearly 200 NIRCam-selected z>5 galaxy candidates in and around the Hubble Ultra Deep Field. These spectra will provide detailed information about individual high-redshift galaxies, not just stacks or averages, allowing us to study the chemical enrichment, stellar populations, star-formation histories, and nuclear black holes in the first billion years of the Universe.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will carry out deep exposures with NIRSpec MSA and NIRCam in GOODS-S. NIRCam is "scientifically prime", but NIRSpec is required to be operationally prime.

There are 5 dither positions, based on 5 pairs of MSA configurations, one for the PRISM and one for the two grating selections. At each dither position, we use 3-shutter nods in a total of 9 disperser/filter pairings. The PRISM occupies 5 of the 9 and G395M the other 4. NIRCam uses 3 pairs of SW/LW filters. In each pairing and nod location, NIRSpec uses 2 integrations of 19 groups and NIRCam uses 2 integrations of 7 groups of DEEP8.

The 5 dithers are used so as to supply 15 separate dither locations for the NIRCam images, enough pixel diversity to assure good reductions. The dithers also give pixel redundancy in NIRSpec, which is valuable for deep exposures.

The automatic visit splitting of the APT splits the total program into 5 equal visits, one for each MSA pair, as desired.

At each position, a MSA configuration was created for the PRISM/CLEAR setup and the gratings separately. Some spectral overlap is allowed for the gratings with the aim of obtaining spectra of many of the same sources in the prism and grating. Overlap is not allowed for the prism spectra.

Because we are using deep broadband imaging from a Cycle 1 program, it is required that these observations occur at V3 PA of 321 degrees.

The exact pointing locations are not final, but will differ only by a few arcseconds.

We include a target list of z>5 galaxy candidates, as well as filler z<5 targets, from a draft catalog from JADES (program 1180, Eisenstein, private communication). MSAs will need to be redesigned for flight, e.g., to account for changes in the bad-shutter mask.