---
id: 3222
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging  NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Maria Drozdovskaya"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "8.69/2.99"
program_title: "Cask-strength clouds: high percentage of methanol and HDO ices"
type: "GO"
---
# 3222 - Cask-strength clouds: high percentage of methanol and HDO ices
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3222
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                                          | Observing Template                 | Science Target                    |
| :--------------------------------------------- | :--------------------------------- | :-------------------------------- |
| IRAS16293-nircam-pre-imaging                   | NIRCam Imaging                     | (2) IRAS16293-NIRCAM              |
| 6Feb2024-1pntg-16-32-29.1343--24-28-39.944 | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (3) IRAS16293_MSA_Cat_6Feb2024    |

---

## ABSTRACT

Understanding the chemical inventory from clouds to planets is a major task in astrochemistry. Low-mass star-forming regions are teeming with complex organic molecules, but the exact combination of gas-phase and grain-surface chemical processes responsible for their synthesis is intensely debated. A key question is to what extent such molecules stem from the prestellar cores that birth the protostars? The trail of water, the dominant volatile, has been intensively studied through deuteration. The HDO/H2O ratio has been used to demonstrate that the water in cores may be connected with water in protoplanetary disks, comets, and the Earth's oceans. However, only a tentative measurement of this ratio exists for interstellar ices, where these molecules originate from. We seek to investigate the chemical composition of ices in the L1689N dark cloud that houses the best-characterized, chemically diverse low-mass protostellar system IRAS 16293-2422 A/B, and the adjacent prestellar core I16293E with some of the highest measured levels of deuteration. With NIRSpec MOS, we will determine the abundances of CO, CO2, H2O, and CH3OH ices in at least a dozen positions in this cloud. We will verify if the tremendous chemical wealth of IRAS 16293-2422 A/B is correlated with high methanol ice column densities as expected in the scenario of grain-surface chemistry. The requested sensitivity will constrain HDO ice in the most D-rich I16293E source. Finally, we will probe for the first time if the ice available for the formation of protostars and protoplanetary disks depends on the age of birth cloud and the number of stars that have already formed there.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to obtain a large (204” x 216”) view of the interstellar ices in the L1689N dark cloud that is the birth site of (i) the best-characterized, chemically most complex and rich low-mass protostellar system IRAS 16293-2422 A/B, and (ii) the adjacent prestellar core I16293E with some of the highest measured levels of deuteration. With NIRSpec MOS we will: (1) investigate how the relative ratios of CO, CO2, and H2O ice initially available in a core may vary from the first (IRAS 16293-2422 A/B) to the second generation (I16293E) of low-mass star formation in the same dark cloud, (2) quantify the availability of methanol ice, a key precursor for complex organic molecules in the grain-surface chemistry formation scenario, in IRAS 16293-2422 A/B; (3) improve on a tentative HDO identification from AKARI allowing for a stringent calibration of the solid-state D/H ratio in water in I16293E alongside gas-phase measurements. First of all, we will execute NIRCam pre-imaging of L1689N (6'x5' FOV). This will allow us to identify all background stars in the FOV that would enable ice absorption spectra studies, including a constraint on their spectral type and stellar spectrum. We expect this number to be significantly higher than the currently known number of background stars. Based on the precise astrometry measurements from the pre-imaging, we will be able to precisely position the MSA and decide which shutters to close to avoid saturation from sources that are too bright, including the I16293A/B protostars themselves. Our choice of NIRSpec gratings and filters will allow us to cover 1.66-6.10 micron at R~2700. Against the stellar flux of the background stars, this will then allow us to probe for spectral features in absorption corresponding to CO, CO2, H2O, and CH3OH. These are the primary ice species that we seek to target in this proposal. We will obtain these full spectra towards at least a dozen of background stars behind the L1689N dark cloud thanks to the MOS mode with the MSA.