---
id: 3225
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/FS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Miriam Garcia"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "66.99/0"
program_title: "What are the real mass loss rates of massive stars?"
type: "GO"
---
# 3225 - What are the real mass loss rates of massive stars?
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3225
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label               | Observing Template              | Science Target       |
| :------------------ | :------------------------------ | :------------------- |
| NGC346-ELS-090      | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (1) NGC346-ELS-090   |
| AZV468              | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (2) AZV468           |
| MPG012              | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (3) MPG012           |
| AZV461              | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (4) AZV461           |
| AZV170              | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (5) AZV170           |
| AZV396              | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (6) AZV396           |
| AZV440              | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (7) AZV440           |
| AZV446              | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (8) AZV446           |
| AZV207              | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (9) AZV207           |
| AZV378              | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (10) AZV378          |
| AZV223              | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (11) AZV223          |
| AZV177              | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (12) AZV177          |
| AZV388              | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (13) AZV388          |
| AZV95               | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (14) AZV95           |
| AZV15               | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (15) AZV15           |

---

## ABSTRACT

Mass loss is a key physical process ruling the evolution of massive stars, whose impact propagates into galactic evolution, population synthesis models, the interpretation of high-redshift galaxies, explosive events like SN, and our understanding of the First Stars. However, there are currently substantial uncertainties in the low-metallicity (Z), low-luminosity regimes where the classical diagnostics, H-alpha and UV P-Cygni profiles, fail to yield true mass-loss rates. Only upper limits exist for most of the parameter space of interest and this is insufficient to inform the models of evolution.

In contrast, the Br-alpha line in the mid-IR breaks this degeneracy, enabling accurate determination of very low mass loss rates that are also independent from assumptions concerning wind inhomogeneities and wind X-ray emission. The technique has already been demonstrated for bright O-stars in the Milky Way. However, our primary low-Z laboratory is the Small Magellanic Cloud (SMC), where Br-alpha spectroscopy of O-stars is simply impossible for any facility other than JWST.

We propose to exploit JWST's superb sensitivity in the thermal IR to determine the mass-loss rates of SMC O-stars with thin winds for the first time. Our results will serve to anchor the physics of radiation-driven wind theory that is so crucial for our understanding of massive star evolution and their impact on the Universe.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The program consists on Fixed-Slit NIRSpec observations of O-type stars in the SMC.
The same configuration is used for all of them:
NIRSpec
Grating: G395H
Blocking Filter: F290LP
Aperture: S200A2
Dithering pattern: 5 point Primary Dithers.
No sub-pixel pattern.
Detector strategy: Full-frame with NRSIRS2RAPID read-out is prefered.
In the event of data-volume violation, NRSIRS2 is used.
The number of integrations and groups has been tailor-estimated for each star so that signal-to-noise ratio SNR=150 is achieved at 4.07 microns.
All stars are concentrated within roughly a 1 degree radius circle on the sky.
Targets are isolated within the S200A2 slit and no ORIENT is specified.
Target coordinates were taken from the Gaia-DR3 catalog. Since accuracy is better than 100 mas, and the program has no ORIENT-requirement, target acquisition will be performed in WATA mode.
All targets are isolated within a 2" radius. Stars AzV396 and MPG012 have a nearby object at ~2", but it is fainter.
All targets have ecliptic latitudes of -64deg -- -65deg and no ORIENT is specified, hence observations at the Micrometeoroid Avoidance Zone can be easily minimized or avoided. This has been double-checked with the Meteoroid Safe Zone tool of the Visit Planner.