---
id: 3226
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Daniel Schaerer"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "24.45/0"
program_title: "Extremely metal-poor galaxies as laboratories for the first galaxies"
type: "GO"
---
# 3226 - Extremely metal-poor galaxies as laboratories for the first galaxies
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3226
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                | Observing Template                | Science Target          |
| :------------------- | :-------------------------------- | :---------------------- |
| J0811+4730           | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) J0811+4730          |
| J0811+4730-BKG       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (6) J0811+4730-BKG      |
| J1004+3256           | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) J1004+3256          |
| J1004+3256-BKG       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (7) J1004+3256-BKG      |
| J1234+3901           | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) J1234+3901          |
| J1234+3901-BKG       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (8) J1234+3901-BKG      |
| J1505+3721           | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) J1505+3721          |
| J1505+3721-BKG       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (9) J1505+3721-BKG      |
| J2229+2725           | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (5) J2229+2725          |
| J2229+2725-BKG       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (10) J2229+2725-BKG     |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose to obtain the first complete mid-IR (5-25 micron) spectra of five of the most metal-poor, compact star-forming galaxies - with metallicities 12+log(O/H)=6.98-7.23 - known so far.

The H recombination lines and the numerous fine-structure lines of Ne, Ar, S, Mg, and others will provide unique constraints on the ionizing radiation field of these galaxies over a wide range of energies. This is of prime interest to help solving a long-standing problem of metal-poor galaxies, whose hard spectra represent a major challenge for stellar population and photoionization models.

The mid-IR lines will allow us to determine accurate nebular abundances of Ne/H, Ar/H, and others, avoiding the temperature dependence of the "direct method" employing optical emission lines. The O/H abundance ("metallicity") derived from the mid-IR spectra will thus provide a fundamental test of the 'golden standard' of extra-galactic metallicities, which could be systematically biased and underestimated due to electron temperature variations on spatially unresolved scales.

The mid-IR spectra will provide unique empirical information on a variety of physical mechanisms (photoionization, X-ray ionization, shocks) which may be present in these extreme objects. They will also be combined with multi-wavelength observations from HST, 10m class telescopes, VLA, GMRT, and others, to yield the most detailed description of the ISM and radiation field of extremely metal-poor galaxies.

The proposed JWST observations will have an important impact on the interpretation of upcoming JWST spectroscopic observations and on our understanding of the most metal-poor and first galaxies in the early Universe.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We request MRS observations of 5 low-redshift, very compact, and strongly star-forming galaxies and a dedicated background observation for each target, as a non-interruptible sequence.

No target acquisition is needed, since we do not require a pointing accuracy better than 0.14".

We request the full MIRI/MRS wavelength range (4 channels, 3 spectral settings) to detect all major mid-IR lines and constrain the vast range of ionization potential.

We select 1 integration with 28 groups to maximize the signal-to-noise ratio (based on ETC calculation), while obtaining a reliable ramp slope. A 4-point dithering, optimized for all wavelengths, is used to mitigate contamination by bad pixels, by sampling the (very compact) science target with redundant detector locations.

The dither pattern used ensures that the source is always within the field-of-view, i.e., minimizing uncertainties on the source extent and/or due to the pointing accuracy.

Dedicated offset background observations are requested for each science target, in order to remove the physical background (dominated by zodiacal emission) and telescope thermal emission. Additionally, since the galaxies are very compact (<<0.5" FWHM), the 4-point dithering should allow using off-source regions in the IFU field to refine the physical background emission estimated from the dedicated background observation. No dithering is required for the background observation since full sampling is not required for these. The dedicated backgrounds will be removed using the master_background subtraction method in the pipeline.

We chose the SLOW readout mode to avoid data excess.

MIRI/MRS simultaneous imaging in F1130W will be used to improve the astrometric solution. From WISE we expect no saturation of the imager in the F1130W filter. We use the F1130W filter, as this allows observing the brightest stars without saturation, since most stars will not have significant excess emission above that from the stellar photosphere.

Considering the similar Hbeta fluxes and ~same compact sizes of all the sources, we used the same calculations and therefore provide the same ETC workbook link for all targets:
https://jwst.etc.stsci.edu/workbook.html?wb_id=145567