---
id: 3231
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Ian Crossfield"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "24.98/0"
program_title: "Panchromatic Phase Curve of the Highest-S/N Hot Neptune"
type: "GO"
---
# 3231 - Panchromatic Phase Curve of the Highest-S/N Hot Neptune
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3231
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label       | Observing Template                 | Science Target |
| :---------- | :--------------------------------- | :------------- |
| Phase Curve | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) LTT9779    |

## ABSTRACT

Planets are complex three dimensional objects whose temperature, chemistry, and clouds vary throughout their atmospheres. Phase curve spectroscopy provides great insight into the atmospheric structure of giant exoplanets, but such observations are sorely lacking for Neptune-size exoplanets.
We propose to measure the spectroscopic thermal phase curve of hot Neptune LTT 9779b with NIRSpec/G395H (3-5 micron) to measure the planet's global thermal and molecular structure via two day-side eclipse spectra, one transmission spectrum, and longitudinally-resolved emission spectra via a full-orbit phase curve. Our program will (i) measure the planet's global molecular abundances to a precision of <0.5 dex and its C/O ratio to better than 10% at the day-side, night-side, terminator, and at intermediate longitudes, (ii) measure cloud properties at all longitudes to compare to the ubiquitous night-side clouds and patchy terminators seen in hot Jupiters, and (iii) provide the definitive hot-Neptune benchmark against which to compare the next generation of models of small exoplanet atmospheric circulation, chemistry, clouds, and global thermal structure.
LTT 9779b is the single best exo-Neptune for these studies because it has: (1) a broadband phase curve and SED already measured with Spitzer; (2) a short, 19-hour orbital period that permits a full-orbit JWST phase curves in a Small program; (3) a hot day-side and bright star that yield high S/N; and (4) a complementary Cycle 1 NIRISS/SOSS phase curve at 1-2.6 micron. However, our simulations show that a combined NIRISS+NIRSpec analysis is necessary to usefully measure the planet's global atmospheric properties.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The basic format for our observations is time series spectroscopy during one planet orbit using NIRSpec/G395H's ``BOTS" (Bright Object Time Series) mode. The 1.6"x1.6" BOTS captures the entire 3--5um spectrum and minimizes both readout times and pointing-induced, time-variable slit losses. We will bracket the phase curve with eclipses: the planet is hidden from view during eclipse, allowing us to correct low-order stellar variability and detector systematics. Our observation consist of near-continuous spectroscopy of the system, interrupted only by detector overheads.
We will perform offset target acquisition using a star 24" away. Both science and offset stars have precise Gaia DR3 astrometry. Our acquisition target is faint enough (Vega J=12.8) that the ETC predicts NIRSpec's Wide-Angle Target Acquisition mode will result in only a single saturated pixel, in line with the instrument handbook's guidelines. AO imaging and Gaia show no stellar companions within 2" down to Delta K_s < 7 mag.
TESS and Spitzer observed our target's transits so we know its orbital perio, and Spitzer shows that the secondary eclipse occurs at an orbital phase of 0.5. These published observations eliminate any meaningful uncertainties in the scheduling times, allowing efficient and accurate scheduling with JWST. APT verifies that LTT~9779b is visible for four months per year; with P~0.79 days this means that >100 observing windows are available for this system. We will schedule our observations in a one-hour, phase-constrained window using these ephemerides. We will then observe the entire phase curve, including transit and a second eclipse.