---
id: 3235
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Jonathan Fortney"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "23.76/0"
program_title: "C,N,O in a Temperate Jupiter: Bridging the Gap Between Solar-System and Exoplanet Atmospheres"
type: "GO"
---
# 3235 - C,N,O in a Temperate Jupiter: Bridging the Gap Between Solar-System and Exoplanet Atmospheres
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3235
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template           | Science Target |
| :---- | :--------------------------- | :------------- |
| PH2b  | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) KEPLER-86B |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose to use NIRSpec PRISM to measure the 0.6-5.5 micron transmission spectrum of planet PH2b, a 300K, temperate giant planet in orbit around a Sunlike star. The planet resides in a narrow region of temperature space where methane, ammonia, and water are the dominant C, N, and O-bearing molecules, respectively, and are found in the gaseous state, rather than condensed into clouds. It is the only known transiting gas giant in this temperature class around a bright Sunlike star. This makes the determination of atmospheric N/O and C/O ratios possible, which can be compared to Jupiter and connected to models of planet formation. Important additional science includes connecting the planet's atmospheric metallicity to the planet's bulk metallicity and comparing atmospheric abundances to those of directly imaged planets and brown dwarfs in the same cold temperature regime.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will perform time-series observations to observe transits of the exoplanet Kepler-86b. The fundamental parameter that determines the length of our time-series observations is the transit duration of Kepler-86b, which is 10.5 hours. In addition to this length of time, we need to observe out-of-transit baseline in order to identify and effectively model any instrument systematics. Such systematics typically introduce red noise, which can occur on varying timescales and requires longer observational baselines to identify, characterize, and remove. We include ~10 hours of baseline, as a ~1:1 ratio of baseline to in-transit observing should allow us to successfully identify and remove systematics.

We will observe our target with NIRSpec/PRISM in the Bright Object Time Series (BOTS) mode, which uses the S1600A1 slit. We used PandExo to simulate our proposed observations and determine the optimal observing pattern. We will use the SUB512 subarray and the NRSRAPID readout pattern. Each transit observation will use 6 groups/integration, 42,000 integrations broken up over two exposures for 20 hours of observing time. This observing strategy will ensure we remain below 83% of the saturation limit, with the exception of the brightest region between 1 and 1.4 um. However, these regions are recoverable if utilizing 2 groups/integration as demonstrated by the JWST ERS team. The visits must cover transits of Kepler-86b, so the phase constraints we have placed ensure that there will be ~5 hours of out-of-transit baseline on either side of the ingress/egress.

TA is done on the target because there aren't any alternatives within the visit splitting distance. The TA image only saturates the central pixel, which is acceptable according to the jdocs.