---
id: 3263
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Rafael Luque"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "23.04/0"
program_title: "The First Atmospheric Study of a Bona Fide Water World"
type: "GO"
---
# 3263 - The First Atmospheric Study of a Bona Fide Water World
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3263
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label        | Observing Template              | Science Target |
| :----------- | :------------------------------ | :------------- |
| Phase curve  | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) TOI-1685   |

---

## ABSTRACT

Water worlds have been proposed as an explanation for the origin and composition of sub-Neptunes. The hypothesis has regained momentum thanks to new developments in planet formation models, individual planet discoveries, and demographic studies of precisely characterized samples. Alternatively, the more widely assumed scenario suggests that these planets are indeed gas dwarfs, i.e. Earth-like cores with primordial H/He envelopes accounting for a small percentage of their total mass. TOI-1685b, however, does not fit into this picture. The 16-hour orbit planet has a low bulk density inconsistent with being a bare rock despite having a high equilibrium temperature (Teq~1070K). If the planet had a primordial H-rich atmosphere, it would have been stripped long ago. With a water-rich core, however, its size and bulk density are naturally explained.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We request one full phase curve of the planet TOI-1685b with NIRSPEC G395H. The orbital period of the planet is 0.6691406 days (~16h). We aim to start 1h before a secondary eclipse, observe through the eclipse, a transit, and a second eclipse, and continue for 1h after the second eclipse (total time ~19h). The two secondary eclipses provide the essential zero point of the observations because this is the only time during the observing sequence that the planet is not seen. To avoid offsets due to changes in the instrument zero point and slewing and pointing overheads, the observation of the planet's phase curve must be performed as an un-interrupted stare.

We use the online JWST ETC to compute exposure time that ensure the highest S/N without surpassing 80% saturation. For TOI-1685b, the optimal configuration is 16 groups per integration with NIRSPEC G395H grating (S/N=179 at 4 microns). Given the brightness of the target, the NIRSPEC observations can use the full SUB2048 BOTS subarray with NRSRAPID readout pattern. The NIRSPEC target acquisition has to be done on a nearby star because the target is too bright. We will use the nearby fainter star 2MASS 04342242+4302334 (J=13.739 mag), which ensures a S/N=139 at 2.08 microns using the WATA acquisition mode, CLEAR filter, SUB32 subarray and NRSRAPID readout pattern.

The 16h orbital period of the planet leads to numerous windows of opportunity. Uncertainties in the orbital ephemeris have a negligible impact on the scheduling.