---
id: 3273
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Kevin Stevenson  Co-PI: Taylor Bell"
prime_parallel_time_hours: ""
program_title: "Eureka!: An Open-Source Pipeline for JWST Time-Series Observations"
type: "AR"
---
# 3273 - Eureka!: An Open-Source Pipeline for JWST Time-Series Observations
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3273
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
## ABSTRACT

---

### 2. Full ABSTRACT

The reduction of JWST time-series observations (TSOs) of transiting exoplanets requires careful analysis using customized software that is not provided as part of STScI's official "jwst"" software package. These custom data reduction pipelines are seldom open-source and oftentimes lack documentation, thorough testing, and general user support. This creates a members-only environment for those that have access to one of the few validated pipelines. Without access to or training for such software, new researchers trying to enter the field face a daunting barrier.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This is an archival Community Data Science Software proposal.

To date, funding for Eureka! has been cobbled together through a haphazard collection of sources (e.g., ERS, GTO, and student/postdoc funding). These funding sources have mostly run out, leaving Eureka! in a state of uncertainty. JWST GO programs do not provide sufficient financial support to actively maintain software packages, let alone realize our four primary objectives. The Community Data Science Software initiative is the best opportunity to make sure Eureka! is maintained in the long term, and the JWST} community has access to effective, open-source, and user-friendly data reduction and analysis code.

We propose to build upon Eureka!'s successful origins by accomplishing four primary objectives:
(1) Adding support for additional TSO instrument modes,
(2) Enhancing the light curve fitting stage,
(3) Incorporating new and improved algorithms, and
(4) Addressing a growing list of unresolved issues and suggested enhancements brought on by people's experiences with Cycle 1 data.