---
id: 3279
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "NIRISS/SOSS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Jens Hoeijmakers"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "13.15/0"
program_title: "Calibrating NIRISS order 3 for very bright time-series observations with JWST"
type: "GO, Calibration"
---
# 3279 - Calibrating NIRISS order 3 for very bright time-series observations with JWST
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3279
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template                     | Science Target |
| :---- | :------------------------------------- | :------------- |
| 1     | NIRISS Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy | HD-133112      |

---

## ABSTRACT

The exquisite sensitivity makes JWST sensitive to saturation when observing bright stars. In particular shorter wavelengths are quickly lost when observing strategies that rely on limited saturation or faster read-out modes are used. This is particularly problematic for some of the most important exoplanet systems, that have very bright host stars (J<6), and that are consequently nearly or completely inaccessible by JWST, even though these systems are best suited for spectroscopic follow-up

NIRISS SOSS Order #3 covers wavelengths between 600 and 924 nm, and has a weak effective throughput compared to the brighter Orders #1 and #2, and has consequently not been commissioned. However, it's inefficiency makes it less susceptible to saturation and ideal for situations in which moderate spectral resolution (R~2000) spectroscopy of very bright sources is required. In this proposal, we aim to perform calibration time-series observations of a bright exoplanet transit, to determine the effectiveness and stability of Order #3, as well as to assess the performance of Order 2 and 1 under conditions of extreme saturation. These observations may later be used to motivate the commissioning of NIRISS SOSS Order 3 as a supported mode for general observations of very bright targets with JWST, at relatively short wavelengths.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This proposal aims to observe a transit of the bright (J=6.2) exoplanet system WASP-189 using NIRISS SOSS. The observations will purposefully saturate orders 1 and 2 to obtain high count rates in order 3, which we aim to extract and use to isolate TiO bands in the planet spectrum. This will prove that order 3 can be used to obtain stable science-grade spectra, such that JWST NIRISS can be used on much brighter sources than is currently possible with any of the other instrument modes.