---
id: 3290
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Matthew Hayes  Co-PI: Claudia Scarlata"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "48.5/0"
program_title: "A complete spectroscopic census of the faintest galaxies and AGN at the dawn of galaxy formation"
type: "GO"
---
# 3290 - A complete spectroscopic census of the faintest galaxies and AGN at the dawn of galaxy formation
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3290
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template            | Science Target |
| ----- | ----------------------------- | -------------- |
|       | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (3) REFSTARS   |
|       | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (3) REFSTARS   |

---

## ABSTRACT

As JWST has recently provided transformative new insights into the first galaxies and AGN, many uncertainties still surround these results. For example: (1.) The stellar and chemical conditions of the first galaxies need to be measured to provide accurate early-time constraints for galaxy evolution theory. (2.) The ionizing photon budget for reionization needs to be firmly anchored for large-volume simulations. (3.) The contribution of the first supermassive black holes (SMBH) needs to be determined, and accurate scenarios for their seeding and growth must be established. Observationally, we must determine the metallicities and ionizing continua of the faintest galaxies at the highest redshifts, and simultaneously take an accurate census of rapidly accreting black holes at the same epoch. We have devised an innovative method to use NIRSpec to perform a blind survey for the faintest emission line sources at redshifts 7-11. We will use this to take a very deep exposure of the Hubble Ultradeep Field, that will identify fainter sources than previously possible, and without the bias of photometric preselection. By measuring fluxes of ultraviolet emission lines, we will infer the chemical and thermodynamic properties in the interstellar media of the first low-mass galaxies, and unambiguously identify the AGN that reside unnoticed among the population. The sensitivity of these new observations will be sufficient to place unique constraints on the abundance of black hole seeds at early times, and provide foundational, realistic input for the next generation of cosmological simulations.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will observe the Hubble Ultra Deep field (HUDF, 03:32:38.9-27:47:29.37) with NIRSpec/MOS using the G140M disperser and the F100LP filter. We will observe with the overwhelming majority of the MSA shutters set to OPEN to perform wide field slitless spectroscopy of the field, closing shutters where we detect sources in existing Hubble imaging in the F814W broadband filter.