---
id: 3293
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Hakim Atek  Co-PI: John Chisholm"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "147.82/0"
program_title: "JWST's GLIMPSE: Gravitational lensing & NIRCam imaging to probe early galaxy formation and sources of reionization"
type: "GO"
---
# 3293 - JWST's GLIMPSE: Gravitational lensing & NIRCam imaging to probe early galaxy formation and sources of reionization
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3293
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :---- | :----------------- | :------------- |
| 1     | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) ACO-S-1063 |

## ABSTRACT

Low-mass galaxies hold the key to the formation process of the first galaxies: the interplay between gas accretion which fuels star formation and the subsequent stellar feedback which inhibits further star formation is likely reflected in the prevalence of low-mass galaxies at early epochs, a few hundred million years after the Big Bang. We propose to combine the power of strong gravitational lensing with ultra-deep NIRCam imaging to achieve three main goals: (1) to measure the prevalence of faint galaxies at z>6 to establish, for the first time, key observational benchmarks for galaxy formation models, which have never been confronted to this uncharted territory; (2) strongly constrain the contribution of the faintest galaxies towards cosmic reionization; (3) probe the typical galaxy population during the Dark Ages, that remains out of reach of current programs.
Despite heroic integration times, current deep JWST programs achieve at best the same intrinsic depth as the Hubble Frontier Fields (HFF, ~31 mag). Here, we propose to extend this observational frontier into the JWST era by using the best HFF lensing cluster AS1063 to push down to 30.6-31 mag, which corresponds to an intrinsic depth of 33-35 mag. We will detect galaxies at z>6 more than a thousand times fainter than the Milky Way. Combined with increasingly powerful numerical simulations, this body of work will radically transform our understanding of galaxy formation and the epoch of reionization.
This unprecedented dataset will showcase the full potential of JWST. In the spirit of the HFF and deep JWST programs, our team commits to rapidly releasing high-quality data products and catalogs to the community.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will obtain deep NIRCam imaging of the best Frontier Fields lensing cluster Abell S1063 in seven broadband filters and two medium-band filters. The goal is to reach an absolute magnitude limit of M(UV)=-12 for galaxies at z>6. Using multiple independent lensing models, we simulate the lensing power of AS1063 through our NIRCam pointing, with the corresponding uncertainties. Our modeling results in an observed depth of 30.6-31AB mag.
The compact morphology and the size of the high-magnification region fits well within one NIRCam module. Therefore, the center coordinates will be determined according to the position angle of the allocated observing window. AS 1063 has an excellent visibility window, especially regarding the Micrometeoroid Avoidance Zone.
We will obtain the deepest imaging in F090W (39h) and F115W (39h) to constrain the Lyman break of galaxies during the reionization epoch (z=6-9). We will combine dropout color-color selection techniques and photometric redshifts estimates with SED-fitting tools. To achieve the most accurate estimate, we will also obtain longer wavelength imaging in the F150W/F277W pair (23h) and the F200W/F356W pair (19h). This combination of filters will be also essential for the selection of Dark Ages galaxies, whose Lyman break is shifted to F115W and F150W filters. While the F44W exposure will be simultaneous to F115W, we split the LW channel exposure corresponding to F090W into two exposures for the medium-band filters F410M (16h) and F480M (23h). By bracketing rest-frame optical emission lines, these medium-band filters dramatically improve the constraints on redshift and physical properties of galaxies. We estimated their exposure times assuming a typical flux of 2e-19 erg s-1 cm-2, which results in SNR=7. We use the DEEP8 readout pattern for all exposures. The total science time is 120h, and the total charged time is 148h.
We adopt a compact INTRAMODULEBOX dither pattern with 4 positions to cover the short wavelength intra-module gaps while maximizing the full-depth area. In addition, we use a subpixel dither with 4 positions to best sample the PSF. The higher spatial resolution that will be achieved will be important for the size measurements of faint galaxies.