---
id: 3295
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: David Sand"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "22.01/0"
program_title: "Is there enough? Cosmic dust formation in normal core-collapse supernovae in the first ~5 years post-explosion"
type: "GO"
---
# 3295 - Is there enough? Cosmic dust formation in normal core-collapse supernovae in the first ~5 years post-explosion
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3295
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label        | Observing Template | Science Target      |
| :----------- | :----------------- | :------------------ |
| SN2022acko   | MIRI Imaging       | (1) SN-2022ACKO     |
| SN2022wsp    | MIRI Imaging       | (8) SN2022WSP       |
| SN2022jox    | MIRI Imaging       | (9) SN2022JOX       |
| SN2021yja    | MIRI Imaging       | (2) SN-2021YJA      |
| SN2021gmj    | MIRI Imaging       | (3) SN-2021GMJ      |
| SN2020jfo    | MIRI Imaging       | (4) SN-2020JFO      |
| SN2018cuf    | MIRI Imaging       | (5) SN-2018CUF      |
| SN2017gmr    | MIRI Imaging       | (6) SN-2017GMR      |
| SN2017eaw    | MIRI Imaging       | (7) SN-2017EAW      |

---

## ABSTRACT

Dust is abundant in the early universe, and core collapse supernovae (CC SNe) are a likely source. However, existing observations of CC SNe in the near- and short mid-infrared yield dust masses ~2-3 orders of magnitude lower than expected. One possible solution is that this dust is hiding deep in the mid-infrared, at temperatures of ~100-200K, or that it is created over a longer time span than some models predict. JWST+MIRI is able to probe both warm (~300-500K) and cold (~100-200K) dust with unprecedented sensitivity. The goal of this proposal is to provide a snapshot of dust formation and evolution in normal CC SNe at three different phases: 1-2, 2-5, and 5+ years after explosion. We will obtain MIRI imaging of a sample of nine normal CC SNe, three in each age range, chosen based on their comprehensive ground-based data sets and observational properties, and not for any dust signatures, which will provide an unbiased look at typical dust production. With JWST spectral energy distributions out to ~25 microns, we will be able to quantify and characterize the amount of cold and warm dust associated with normal CC SNe as a function of time since explosion, explore links between dust formation and other SN properties, and address the issue of cosmic dust formation in the early universe.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This proposal will image a sample of nine normal core collapse supernovae with MIRI. The sample was specially chosen to span three age ranges: 1-2 yrs, 2-5 yrs and 5+ yrs. This time corresponds to possible dust creation in the supernova environment.
Each observation will consist of imaging in all the primary MIRI filters: F560W, F770W, F1000W, F1130W, F1280W, F1500W, F1800W, F2100W, and F2550W. The full suite of MIRI imaging is necessary to characterize both cold and warm dust components (down to ~100-200K) and to have sensitivity to PAH and SiO dust-related features. Standard 4-point dithers will be applied.