---
id: 3315
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/LRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Jason Wright  Co-PI: Nick Tusay"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "23.05/0"
program_title: "Measuring the Interior Composition of a Terrestrial Planet"
type: "GO"
---
# 3315 - Measuring the Interior Composition of a Terrestrial Planet
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3315
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label       | Observing Template             | Science Target |
| :---------- | :----------------------------- | :------------- |
| Transit 1   | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) K2-22B     |
| Transit 2   | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) K2-22B     |
| Phase Curve | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) K2-22B     |

---

## ABSTRACT

The disintegrating ultra-short period exoplanet K2-22b offers us the opportunity to probe the interior composition of a rocky exoplanet for the first time. We propose to do so by measuring the transmission spectrum and phase curve of the dust evaporating from K2-22b using MIRI LRS slitless spectroscopy. We propose to observe two transits, as well as a complete phase curve of the orbit from one transit to another, for a total of four transit observations of K2-22b. By comparing the transit transmission spectra to detailed extinction and scattering models, we can determine the mineralogical make-up of the dust outflowing from K2-22b, and therefore the composition of the planet's interior. The phase curve data will allow us to measure the temperature and spatial extent of the dust, which will further constrain its morphological properties, as well as the dynamics of the dust-outflow around the planet itself. The relative mineralogical abundances in the dust will allow us to determine whether it is crustal, mantle or core material that is evaporating. Assuming mantle material is evaporating, these observations will determine the Mg/Si and Fe/Si ratios of the planet which drives important questions of interior dynamics and habitability.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We wish to observe two transits and one phase curve (containing another two transits) of K2-22b using MIRI's low resolution spectrometer (LRS) in slitless spectroscopy mode, to collect spectrophotometry from 5um to 12um. All of our observations will use the P750L disperser with the SLITLESSPRISM subarray in FAST readout mode. We will observe each transit as a single exposure, using 450 groups per integration and 151 integrations per exposure. The phase curve data will use 3 exposures of 205 integrations, for a total duration of approximately 44,000 seconds. We therefore expect to have events from the high-gain antenna repointing during the phase curve observation, but given that the transients from the HGA repoints are expected to damp out within a few seconds, we expect these to have a negligible effect on our observations. In all cases K2-22 (K=11.91) is at roughly 80% of the detector's saturation threshold.

For target acquisition we will use the standard TA for MIRI LRS slitless observations, acquiring directly on K2-22 itself. We will use the F560W filter with the SLITLESSPRISM subarray in FAST readout mode, and we will have 44 groups in a single integration. This will give the TA image a signal-to-noise ratio of approximately 270, and a peak flux at roughly 41% of the saturation limit.

Since these observations are targeting the transits and a phase curve of K2-22b, they will need to be scheduled specifically for these events. A transit of K2-22b occurs once every 0.381 days (9.15 hours). We have verified that K2-22b has 2 large (~ 50 day) visibility windows from 12-06-2023 to 01-24-2024 and 04-24-2024 to 06-14-2024.