---
id: 3322
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: David Nataf"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "15.91/0"
program_title: "Determination of the Star-by-Star Elemental Abundance Trends in Nearby Galaxies: Are the Disks Bimodal?"
type: "GO"
---
# 3322 - Determination of the Star-by-Star Elemental Abundance Trends in Nearby Galaxies: Are the Disks Bimodal?
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3322
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label (Folder Observation) | Observing Template | Science Target      |
| :------------------------- | :----------------- | :------------------ |
| 1                          | NIRCam Imaging     | (2) ANDROMEDA-INNER |
| 3                          | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) ANDROMEDA-OUTER |
| 5                          | NIRCam Imaging     | (3) TRIANGULUM-INNER |
| 7                          | NIRCam Imaging     | (4) TRIANGULUM-OUTER |

---

## ABSTRACT

The evolution of chemical abundances is driven by the nature of stellar populations and gas mixing processes. Abundances of elements therefore are primary tests of models of galaxy evolution and the operation of the baryon cycle. Cosmic chemical elements fall into two main groups, alpha elements formed rapidly in core collapse supernovae and the Fe-peak group, primarily from more slowly evolving populations of type I supernovae. We propose to use the unique capabilities of JWST to measure [Fe/H] and [Alpha/Fe] ratios in millions of evolved stars in the galaxies M31 and M33, using a combination of six NIRCam filters. In the Milky Way the origin of the bimodal [Fe/H]-[Alpha/Fe] distribution has yet to be fully described and is not observed in our dwarf satellites. Bimodal [Fe/H]-[Alpha/H] distributions are challenging to simulate in Lambda-CDM models of galaxy evolution. Models require fine tuning, and different approaches do not agree and it is essential to understand if the Galactic situation is unusual. Alpha element abundance distributions in galaxies other than the Milky Way and its satellites are too limited to reliably reveal overall [Fe/H]-[Alpha/Fe] patterns. M31 and M33 are nearby with abundant pre-existing data. They are prime targets for pilot studies to validate our JWST methodology to measure both [Fe/H] and [Alpha/Fe] for individual stars while offering a test on the commonality of bimodal [Fe/H]- [Alpha/Fe] distributions. This novel project will fundamentally advance our ability to apply chemical evolution models to nearby galaxies and thereby also frame the results from detailed Milky Way studies.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to acquire deep JWST-NIRCam imaging in six filters (F070W, F162, F200W, F300M, F356W, F460M), two fields each in two nearby disk galaxies, Andromeda (M31) and Trianglum (M33). The aim would be to deconvolve the effects of [Fe/H], [Alpha/Fe], and age on the resolved stellar populations of these galaxies. The broad band filters are sensitive to age, total metallicity ([M/H] \approx [Fe/H] + 0.75[Alpha/Fe]), and reddening, whereas the medium-band filters are sensitive to the effects of molecular absorption from carbon monoxide and water, and thus of the alpha elements. The resulting data would thus yield information on the alpha enrichment for millions of stars in galaxies signifcantly different than our own Milky Way, the only galaxy for which an alpha bimodality has been measured.