---
id: 3324
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Joseph Hora  Co-PIs: Daryl Haggard and Gunther Witzel"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "29.88/0"
program_title: "Sgr A* as Particle Accelerator: What Drives the Black Hole's Variable IR and X-ray Emission?"
type: "GO"
---
# 3324 - Sgr A* as Particle Accelerator: What Drives the Black Hole's Variable IR and X-ray Emission?
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3324
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                   | Observing Template              | Science Target      |
| :---------------------- | :------------------------------ | :------------------ |
| GC MIRI full            | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) NAME-SGR-A      |
| GC_background MIRI      | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (5) GC-MIRI-BKGND   |
| Staring mode 1          | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) NAME-SGR-A      |
| Staring mode 1          | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) NAME-SGR-A      |
| Staring mode 1          | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) NAME-SGR-A      |
| GC MIRI full            | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) NAME-SGR-A      |
| GC_background_MIRI      | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (5) GC-MIRI-BKGND   |
| Staring mode 1          | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) NAME-SGR-A      |
| Staring mode 1          | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) NAME-SGR-A      |
| Staring mode 1          | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) NAME-SGR-A      |
| GC MIRI full            | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) NAME-SGR-A      |
| GC_background_MIRI      | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (5) GC-MIRI-BKGND   |
| Staring mode 1          | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) NAME-SGR-A      |
| Staring mode 1          | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) NAME-SGR-A      |
| Staring mode 1          | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) NAME-SGR-A      |

---

## ABSTRACT

The Galactic Center offers the closest opportunity for studying accretion onto a supermassive black hole, Sagittarius A*. Sgr A*'s fluctuating emission is detected across the electromagnetic spectrum and may originate in the accretion flow or jet. Recent models indicate that variability can be produced by particle acceleration in different types of reconnection events. These models produce unique spectral characteristics imprinted on the variable emission in the MIR. Measurements of the spectral energy distribution in this wavelength regime during quiescent and flaring episodes in concert with X-ray monitoring will enable us to distinguish between models and constrain the energy budget of the emission region. In addition, the circumnuclear environment of Sgr A* contains dozens of IR sources and structures that are critical to understanding both the accretion-feeding processes and the nature of the cluster of stars and dusty gas features near it. We propose MIRI MRS IFU time-series spectral monitoring of Sgr A* and its surrounding region, along with simultaneous Chandra observations, to characterize the black hole's MIR and X-ray emission in different flux density states, determine the nature of the emission, and constrain models of the accretion and radiation processes. Only JWST has the high angular resolution and sensitivity in the mid-IR to probe this complex and dynamic region.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The goal of this program is to obtain time-series MIRI MRS IFU spectra of the region centered on Sgr A* in order to determine the spectra of the time-variable emission from the region near the supermassive black hole.
We will obtain a full MIRI spectrum from 5 to 28 microns of the field including Sgr A* with MIRI MRS at the beginning of the monitoring period using the conventional observing strategy with four dithers in each of three grating settings to cover the full spectral range. Observations will use the fast readout mode to avoid saturation. A single exposure in each of four dither positions will give good signal to noise. A second nearby position will be observed as a background reference field.
The majority of the time will be spent in staring mode at the shortest MIRI MRS grating setting to monitor Sgr A* and detect fluctuations in the signal. The time is divided into three epochs, each containing three staring observations that include about 7 hours of science time, simultaneous with Chandra observations. Based on previous ground-based and Spitzer observations, we expect that during the monitoring period there will be one peak or flare with an emission level of ~5 mJy at 5 microns, several peaks at the 2 mJy level, and many smaller fluctuations that we will be able to detect, at least at the shorter wavelengths, at higher S/N than previous observations and in a new spectral regime.