---
id: 3325
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/WFSS  NIRSpec/IFU  NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Feige Wang  Co-PI: Jinyi Yang"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "44.51/16.34"
program_title: "Mapping the Most Extreme Protoclusters in the Epoch of Reionization"
type: "GO"
---
# 3325 - Mapping the Most Extreme Protoclusters in the Epoch of Reionization
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3325
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
**1. List of Labels, Corresponding Observing Template, and Science Targets**

| Folder Observation | Label              | Observing Template                  | Science Target                |
|--------------------|--------------------|-------------------------------------|-------------------------------|
| J0226P0302-WFSS 1  | J0226P0302-P1      | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (2) J0226P0302                |
| J0226P0302-WFSS 2  | J0226P0302-P2      | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (2) J0226P0302                |
| J0226P0302-WFSS 3  | J0226P0302-P3      | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (2) J0226P0302                |
| J0226P0302-WFSS 4  | J0226P0302-P4      | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (2) J0226P0302                |
| J0226P0302-WFSS 5  | J0226P0302-P5      | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (2) J0226P0302                |
| J0305m3150-WFSS 6 | J0305M3150-P1      | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (3) J0305M3150                |
| J0305m3150-WFSS 7 | J0305M3150-P2      | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (3) J0305M3150                |
| J0305m3150-WFSS 8 | J0305M3150-P3      | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (3) J0305M3150                |
| J0305m3150-WFSS 108 | J0305M3150-P3     | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (3) J0305M3150                |
| J0305m3150-WFSS 9 | J0305M3150-P4      | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (3) J0305M3150                |
| J0305m3150-WFSS 10 | J0305M3150-P5     | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (3) J0305M3150                |
| J0226P0007-MSA 12  | J0226-4config-pa2  | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy    | (7) J0226-MSA-Targets         |
| J0305M3150-MSA 13 | J0305-4config-pa1-v10 | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy    | (11) J0305 MSA new20240906    |
| NIRSpec-IFU 15     | J0226-IFU          | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy            | (2) J0226P0302                |
| NIRSpec-IFU 16     | J0305-IFU          | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy            | (3) J0305M3150                |

---

## ABSTRACT

Theoretical models predict that the earliest billion-M_sun supermassive black holes (SMBHs) form from massive dark matter halos and trace the formation of protoclusters in the early Universe. We propose to study the two most extreme galaxy overdensities anchored by luminous quasars at z~6.6, discovered from JWST Cycle-1 observations of ~20 quasar fields. Both systems show Mpc-scale filamentary structures with galaxy overdensity >10, centered on the quasars. However, the existing observations consist of single NIRCam/WFSS pointings that do not yet cover the full protocluster structure and are limited to redshift measurements of luminous member galaxies.

In Cycle-2, we will: (1) carry out NIRCam/WFSS mosaic observations covering >3 times wider area, to fully map the large-scale structure and the kinematics of the protocluster member galaxies by discovering 80 protocluster member galaxies. The NIRCam observations will also discover more than 200 field galaxies at 5.3<z<7. (2) obtain deep NIRSpec/MSA spectroscopy for ~150 [OIII] emitting galaxies identified from NIRCam/WFSS and additional photometrically selected Lyman break galaxies (LBGs) up to z~12, which will enable the first statistical characterizations of environment-dependent galaxy formation and AGN activities in the EoR. (3) obtain deep NIRSpec/IFU observations of the two central quasars to shed light on the formation of the central luminous quasars, progenitors of the brightest cluster galaxies. The proposed observations will provide the first comprehensive study of the connection between the growth of the first-generation SMBHs, massive dark matter halos, and large-scale structures traced by galaxy overdensities.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

**OBSERVING DESCRIPTION**
This program consists the following observing modes:

**1. NIRCam/WFSS observations.**
The proposed targets have existing single-pointing NIRCam/WFSS observations. In this program, we propose to use a 2x3 mosaic to cover a 3.3 times bigger area. To avoid duplicating the existing pointing, we exclude the existing pointing and thus only add five additional NIRCam/WFSS pointings for each field. The positions of the five pointings are:
x_offset=-60.5 arcsec, y_offset=54 arcsec
x_offset=-60.5 arcsec, y_offset=-73.5 arcsec
x_offset=63.0 arcsec, y_offset=7.5 arcsec
x_offset=63.0 arcsec, y_offset=54.0 arcsec
x_offset=63.0 arcsec, y_offset=-73.5 arcsec
Together with the existing observations (x_offset=-60.5 arcsec, y_offset=7.5 arcsec), we will cover a 3.3x bigger area and reach a 2x greater depth in the quasar vicinity. These observations will identify a large number of [OIII] emitters in the protoclusters and at other redshifts.

We use exactly the same configuration with existing NIRCam/WFSS observations: F356W filter for WFSS observations in the LW and F200W filter for imaging observations in the SW, F115W+F356W for in-field imaging and out-of-field direct imaging. We will use SHALLOW4 readout mode and INTRAMODULEX primary dithers for the observations. We use NIRISS in parallel with the F356W and F444W filters.

**2. NIRSpec/MSA observations.**
We will perform two NIRSpec/MSA pointings for each field to target NIRCam/WFSS selected [OIII] emitters, imaging selected Lyman Break Galaxies and submillimeter galaxies. We will obtain two NIRSpec/MSA pointings for each field to cover most of the NIRCam mosaic area. We use G395M/F290LP for the MSA observations in order to cover Hbeta, [OIII], Halpha, and [NII] lines of galaxies at z<6.7. For each pointing, we split it into two observations with each observation having ~1hr on-source exposure with the NRSIRS2 readout mode and 16 groups and 1 integration. We will use NIRCam in parallel with the F070W, F115W, F56W, and F444W.

**3. NIRSpec/IFU observations.**
We will perform NIRSpec/IFU observations for the central quasars. We use G395H/F290LP to cover the Hbeta, [OIII], Halpha, and [NII] lines of quasars. We use 6-pointing CYCLING dithers and NRSIRS2 readout mode with 25 groups and 1 integration, amounting to a total on-source time of ~3hr per target.