---
id: 3337
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Coronagraphy"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Daniella Bardalez Gagliuffi  Co-PI: William Balmer"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "7.42/0"
program_title: "Solving a Solar Neighborhood Crime Scene by Imaging 14 Her c"
type: "GO"
---
# 3337 - Solving a Solar Neighborhood Crime Scene by Imaging 14 Her c
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3337
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                      | Observing Template             | Science Target |
| :------------------------- | :----------------------------- | :------------- |
| 14 HER -- ROLL 1           | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (1) -14-HER    |
| 14 HER -- ROLL 2           | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (1) -14-HER    |
| HD144002 -- PSF REF 14 HER | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (2) HD-144002  |

## ABSTRACT

We propose to directly image 14 Her c, the outer planet of the clearest example of a system survivor of dynamical disruption potentially undergoing Kozai-Lidov oscillations. With one image from JWST/NIRCam we will be able to detect one of only two field-age giant exoplanets amenable for direct imaging. This image will constrain the relative astrometry between the star and the planet, crucially improving our posteriors of planet mass and inclination, as well as all orbital parameters. The 14 Her system will serve as a crucial benchmark: the first well-characterized system across multiple techniques (accelerations, RV, direct imaging) with two mutually perpendicular, wide-separation planetary orbits to inform dynamical mechanisms that may be more widespread across planetary scales.
Additionally, we will contextualize this planet in a color-magnitude diagram with Y dwarfs of similar temperature (many of them targeted with JWST GO programs) and Eps Indi Ab, the other field-age giant planet scheduled for direct imaging with JWST. Our observations provide a rare opportunity to probe an exoplanetary system contemporary to our own.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to image 14 Her c with NIRCam using the F444W filter and the MASK335R round mask coronagraph. We will use the F200W filter simultaneously with the F444W filter thanks to the NIRCam dichroic and use this image to rule out background stars. We will combine angular and reference differential imaging (ADI+RDI) to detect 14 Her c with a standard detector setup.