---
id: 3348
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Rupali Chandar"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "7.46/0"
program_title: "Crouching Galaxy, Hidden Stars: Observational Tests of Cluster Formation Theories"
type: "GO"
---
# 3348 - Crouching Galaxy, Hidden Stars: Observational Tests of Cluster Formation Theories
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3348
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label             | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :---------------- | :----------------- | :------------- |
| NIRCAM NGC3690    | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) NGC3690    |
| NIRCAM IC4687     | NIRCam Imaging     | (2) IC4687     |

## ABSTRACT

Intensely star-forming galaxies provide a unique laboratory to study the relationship between star and cluster formation. The current generation of cosmological simulations, although starting from very different approaches and input physics, have converged in their predictions for the outcomes of the star formation process for galaxies with high star formation rate densities. Essentially, all modern simulations predict that ~50-80% of stars are born in compact clusters when star formation is very intense. While current observational results are inconsistent with these predictions, they are based on UV/optical studies with HST which almost certainly miss many (and possibly most) of the youngest, most massive, deeply embedded star clusters in extreme star-forming galaxies. We propose new NIRCAM observations of NGC 3690 and IC 4687, two dust-enshrouded mergers which have some of the highest star formation rates and surface densities in the nearby universe. Our 6-filter observations are designed to efficiently detect embedded clusters and to estimate their ages and masses. From the complete JWST+HST census of massive clusters, we will determine the fraction of stars that form in clusters, and construct and fit the initial cluster mass function. We will establish if these new results, which account for all clusters (obscured and unobscured), agree with predictions from hydrodynamic simulations, or if new physics still needs to be considered.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will observe NGC 3690 and IC 4687, two merging/interacting, infrared-luminous systems with 6 filters on NIRCAM, in order to detect and age-date the obscured cluster population. We propose single-module NIRCAM imaging in 6 filters: Two hydrogen recombination lines, Paschen alpha (F182M) and Brackett alpha (M410M), plus 4 broader filters which will serve as continuum bands for the hydrogen lines and also cover the full wavelength range available on NIRCAM: F150W, F200W, F377W and F480W.
Our galaxies each fit within a single pointing & module of NIRCam, thus saving on data rate, volume, and making scheduling easier. We do not include any roll angle constraints to make scheduling as easy as possible.
We select the `intramodulebox' 4-point primary dither pattern to image maximum area at full depth, and 3 small-grid dithers to improve PSF sampling. Our ETC calculations assume these parameters (i.e., 12 dithers), and we select the NIRCam readout pattern that produces our required photon collect times with 6 or more groups per integration to optimize cosmic ray rejection.