---
id: 3362
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "NIRISS/WFSS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Adam Muzzin"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "44.03/29.12"
program_title: "JWST in Technicolor: Finding and Mapping the Most Extreme Star Forming Galaxies in the Epoch of Reionization with Medium and Narrow Bands"
type: "GO"
---
# 3362 - JWST in Technicolor: Finding and Mapping the Most Extreme Star Forming Galaxies in the Epoch of Reionization with Medium and Narrow Bands
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3362
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :---- | :----------------- | :------------- |
|       | NIRISS Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (1) ABELL370 |
|       | NIRISS Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (2) MACSJ0416.1-2403 |
|       | NIRISS Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (4) MACSJ1149+2223 |

## ABSTRACT

We propose a NIRCam imaging program of the Hubble Frontier Fields Parallel Fields in 8 broad/medium/narrowband filters. Building upon the existing treasury data from JWST and HST, these fields will have 29-band space telescope imaging covering 0.4 - 5.0 microns and will be the only fields to contain the full suite of all 20 NIRCam broad and medium bands, providing an exceptional "technicolor" dataset to the community. The key addition to existing data is imaging in the reddest medium bands (F430M/F460M/F480M) and bluest narrow bands (F164N/F187N) which enable multiple science goals: 1) The detection and characterization of the most extreme emission line galaxies (1000A <EW < 5000A) at 5 <z< 12 based purely on their line fluxes. 2) Substantially improved measurements of the stellar mass function of galaxies at 5 <z< 12. 3) Resolved 2D mapping of emission lines at 1 <z< 12. 4) Detection of ultra-low metallicity galaxies with strong Hell emission at 9 <z< 12. By selecting galaxies based only on their emission line fluxes, this will be the first line-flux-limited imaging survey and will unveil previously undetected reionization sources such as dusty galaxies without clear continuum breaks, as well as ultra low-mass galaxies (6 < LogM < 7) that are too faint to be well-detected in continuum. We will also conduct parallel WFSS observations with NIRISS in F090W which will allow the study of Ha emitters in the HFF cluster galaxies and LyA at 5 <z<7. Given the legacy value of these data we are requesting no proprietary time and commit to delivering reduced data products and catalogs to the community in advance of the Cycle 3 deadline if scheduling permits.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This proposal consists of a prime observation of NIRISS WFSS spectroscopy in the F090W filter of three of the Hubble Frontier Fields Clusters. It also contains a co-ordinated parallel of NIRCam Imaging in 4 SW (F070W/F164N/F187N/F200W) and 4 LW filters (F356W/F430M/F460M/F480M). The total exposure time is ~10 hours for the NIRISS WFSS F090W, and is ~10ks in most of the NIRCam filters. The PA of each observation is fairly tightly constrained so that the observations will line up with previous GTO observations of the same field with the same instruments (using different filters). There are no special requirements.