---
id: 3384
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Robert Hynes"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "7.43/0"
program_title: "Testing the Jet Origin of the Mysterious Infrared Excess in Quiescent Black Hole Binaries"
type: "GO"
---
# 3384 - Testing the Jet Origin of the Mysterious Infrared Excess in Quiescent Black Hole Binaries
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3384
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :---- | :----------------- | :------------- |
|       | MIRI Imaging       | (1) V404-CYG   |
|       | MIRI Imaging       | (1) V404-CYG   |
|       | MIRI Imaging       | (1) V404-CYG   |

## ABSTRACT
    We will observe the quiescent black hole X-ray binary V404 Cyg with JWST/MIRI and ALMA. This is a prototype of the class of 'electromagnetic black holes' with normal stellar companions, in contrast to binary stellar mass black holes identified by LIGO. V404 Cyg exhibits an IR excess in Spitzer observations above that expected from either the secondary star or the accretion disk. Two explanations are proposed. Either it originates from synchrotron emission from a relativistic jet that persists into quiescence or from a large, cool circumbinary disk. We will discriminate between these possibilities by using the large throughput and sensitivity of JWST coupled with simultaneous ALMA observations of the radio jet to search for mid-IR variability and multiwavelength correlation and measure the mid-IR-mm spectral energy distribution. No short timescale variability is expected from a circumbinary disk so variability, especially if correlated with ALMA, would falsify the disk model and confirm mid-IR jet emission. On the other hand, if ALMA sees variability but JWST does not, this will support the circumbinary disk interpretation with profound implications for compact binary evolution. Joint JWST-ALMA observations of the jet would probe jet formation close to the black hole at extremely low accretion rates, and would be compared to predicted multiwavelength lightcurves from models of internal shocks in jets. These observations when compared to observations from V404 Cyg in outburst would allow a study of jets spanning five orders of magnitude dynamic range in luminosity.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION
    We will perform time-series observations with JWST supported by ALMA of the quiescent black hole binary V404 Cyg to search for infrared and mm variability expected from a jet together with multicolor photometry to measure its mid-IR spectral energy distribution. Based on radio observations we expect flares on timescales of minutes, but also anticipate shorter timescale variability will be present at shorter wavelengths.
    We will use MIRI imaging in Time Series Observation mode to obtain two uninterrupted series of images over two hours each (matched to ALMA two hour observing blocks). Sub-array (SUB64) mode will be used as these are single point-sources and we wish to maximize time-resolution. We use 64 groups per integration to permit well-calibrated 5.45 second resolution lightcurves, and will also examine individual groups to search for higher time-resolution information.
    V404 Cyg has a luminous sub-giant companion, so we work primarily in the mid-IR using the F2100W filter with which we expect a large contrast with a jet or circumbinary disk. We include a sequence of observations spanning the F1280W to F2550W filters to measure the shape of the spectral energy distribution. We anticipate that these can be scheduled at the end of the second time-series rather than as a self-contained observation.
    Joint ALMA observations should be scheduled simultaneously, with one two hour block matched to each of Observations 1 and 2. V404 Cyg is a northern target so it is likely that ALMA will require scheduling these on different nights, but we would prefer to observe them back to back if ALMA can match that and that would save on slew time.