---
id: 3385
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRISS/SOSS  NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Chelsea Huang  Co-PI: Andrew Vanderburg"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "29.81/0"
program_title: "The first comparative atmospheric study of a Jovian planet and a sub-Neptune in the TOI-1130 system"
type: "GO"
---
# 3385 - The first comparative atmospheric study of a Jovian planet and a sub-Neptune in the TOI-1130 system
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3385
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label          | Observing Template                          | Science Target |
| :------------- | :------------------------------------------ | :------------- |
| TOI-1130c      | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series           | (1) TOI-1130   |
| TOI-1130b      | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series           | (1) TOI-1130   |
| TOI-1130 c     | NIRISS Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy  | (1) TOI-1130   |
| TOI-1130 b     | NIRISS Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy  | (1) TOI-1130   |

## ABSTRACT

The Solar system has a unique architecture: it hosts planets with drastic mass differences. Exoplanet systems with similar characteristics hold the key to generalize our understanding in how giant planets influence the formation and evolution of planetary systems. We request JWST NIRSpec and NIRISS observations to measure the transmission spectra of the TOI-1130 system. TOI-1130 hosts a transiting close-in Jovian planet, and an additional, inner transiting sub-Neptune-sized planet. The two planets are in inclination angle resonances, a strong signature of planetary system formed via disk migration. We will compare the absolute and relative atmospheric properties of TOI-1130 b and c, including the carbon-to-oxygen ratio, metallicity, and potentially enhancement of other volatile/refractory species. These measurements will enable us to distinguish between various different formation/evolution scenarios of the TOI-1130 system, presents the first opportunity to deep dive into a unique type of system that has never been studied previously. The outcome of this proposal provide a legacy datapoint in the JWST library of muliplanet systems, as well as a benchmark spectra to compare against other Jovian planets with more ambiguous origins.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We are proposing to conduct a medium programme of ~ 29.7 hr including overheads to observe one transit each for TOI-1130 b and c using NIRSpec in Bright Object Times Series (BOTS) mode and the NIRISS single object slitless spectroscopy (SOSS) mode.

For NIRSpec BOTS, we are using the default S1600A1 slit, and the G395H grating with the F290LP filter and the SUB2048 subarray. This provides resolving power of 1000 with wavelength coverage spanning 2.87-5.10 microns. For each planet, we calculated the visit duration (or dwell time) for JWST observations of transiting exoplanets, given by Tdwell = 0.75 hr (detector settling) + max(1 hr, T14/2) (before transit) +T14 (transit) + max(1 hr, T14/2) (after transit) + 1 hr (timing window), where T14 is the total transit duration. Taken together, this ensures that both the transit and sufficient out-of-transit baseline are acquired, that the detector has sufficient time to settle, and the observation is sufficiently long to provide flexibility with the scheduling window. Respectively for planets b, and c, the transit durations of 2.3, and 2.0 hr result in visit durations of 6.05 and 5.75 hr. For our observations, we set the number of groups per integration to be the maximum that ensures that none of the pixels in the detector exceeds 60% of its full well capacity. For TOI-1130 (Kmag = 8.351) with the NRSRAPID readout mode and the SUB2048 subarray, this occurred at 8 groups per integration. To cover the calculated visit durations, we used single exposures with 2675 and 2551 integrations for planets b and c, respectively. At the resolution element corresponding to a wavelength of 4.5 microns, this achieves a SNR of 97 per frame, which corresponds to a precision on the transit depth of 410 and 428 ppm. In practice, we will combine the data into wavelength bins to achieve an SNR that is sufficiently high to robustly detect the expected molecular features at these wavelengths.

For NIRISS SOSS, we are using the SUBSTRIP256 (the default for the SOSS observing mode) which covers all spectroscopic orders and provides more pixels with which to estimate the background compared with SUBSTRIP96. We chose the NISRAPID readout pattern. We use similar visit duration calculation as NIRSpec BOTS, which result in visit durations of 6.05 and 5.75 hr for b and c. For the observations, we use number of 2 groups per integration, which is the minimum value permitted for us to ensure that none of the pixels in the detector exceeds 60% of its full well capactity. We achieve a SNR of ~374 at 1.57 um. For planet TOI-1130 b and c, we will take 1320 and 1259 total integrations, which would give us a transit depth precision of 151 and 158 ppm per transit.