---
id: 3399
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Marshall Perrin  Co-PI: Jean-Baptiste Ruffio"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "11.39/0"
program_title: "An Empirical Calibration of the NIRSpec IFU Point Spread Function to Enable High Contrast Imaging Spectroscopy"
type: "GO, Calibration"
---
# 3399 - An Empirical Calibration of the NIRSpec IFU Point Spread Function to Enable High Contrast Imaging Spectroscopy
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3399
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                                       | Observing Template          | Science Target |
| :------------------------------------------ | :-------------------------- | :------------- |
| NRS IFU PSF Calibration - PSF core          | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (1) J1757132   |
| NRS IFU PSF Calibration - PSF wings         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (2) HD1634665  |

---

## ABSTRACT

This GO Calibration effort seeks to obtain a high quality empirical point spread function (PSF) calibration for the NIRSpec IFU. Improved knowledge of the NIRSpec IFU PSF will directly benefit diverse science cases involving precise spectroscopy of "faint things next to bright things”, spanning from imaging spectroscopy of exoplanets, brown dwarfs, and circumstellar disks, to minor bodies and faint rings in the solar system, to studies of quasar host galaxies. For high contrast imaging spectroscopy of exoplanetary systems, NIRSpec has tremendous promise, but making high contrast algorithms work to their full potential on NIRSpec data will require understanding in detail the PSF properties, effects of spatial undersampling, and datacube systematics. However there has not yet been any calibration program dedicated to measuring the NIRSpec IFU PSF. To fill that gap, the observations we propose will provide the first calibration measurements of the NIRSpec PSF with high SNR and high dynamic range (spanning from the PSF core to the outer wings across the full IFU FOV), finely dithered for better spatial sampling, covering 0.95 to 5.3 microns with all the high resolution gratings. The resulting improved knowledge of IFU imaging spectroscopy performance and systematics will benefit diverse studies using NIRSpec from the solar system to exoplanets and circumstellar disks to the distant universe.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This program will obtain high SNR, well-dithered, high spectral resolution empirical calibrations for the NIRSpec IFU's point spread function, to enable and enhance high contrast science investigations using the IFU.

We observe two relatively bright A type photometric standards, using the cycling dither pattern with 16 points for fine sampling of the PSF, and with the high resolution gratings.