---
id: 3417
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/FS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Yoshiki Matsuoka  Co-PI: Masafusa Onoue"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "23.0/0"
program_title: "Unveiling Obscured Growth of Supermassive Black Holes in the Epoch of Reionization"
type: "GO"
---
# 3417 - Unveiling Obscured Growth of Supermassive Black Holes in the Epoch of Reionization
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3417
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                   | Observing Template          | Science Target           |
| :---------------------- | :-------------------------- | :----------------------- |
| J1423-0018 FS           | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (1) HSCJ1423-0018        |
| J0844+0226 FS           | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (2) HSCJ0844+0226        |
| J0935-0110 FS           | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (3) HSCJ0935-0110        |
| J1254-0014 FS           | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (4) HSCJ1254-0014        |
| J0207+0238 FS           | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (5) HSCJ0207+0238        |
| J1423+0206 FS           | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (6) HSCJ1423+0206        |
| J2232+0012 FS           | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (7) HSCJ2232+0012        |
| J0905+0300 FS           | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (8) HSCJ0905+0300        |
| J1416+0015 FS           | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (9) HSCJ1416+0015        |
| J0853+0139 FS           | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (10) HSCJ0853+0139       |

---

## ABSTRACT

Obscured quasars in the epoch of reionization (EoR) are a key population to fully understand the initial growth of supermassive black holes (SMBHs). While very few candidates have been reported to date, models and observations suggest that such objects are prevalent in the high-z (z > 6) universe, and that the >300 known UV-luminous quasars may represent just a small portion of the early SMBH growth. Recently, an unprecedentedly wide-and-deep survey with Subaru HSC has uncovered a new population of high-z galaxies showing extremely luminous Ly-alpha emission, with clearly distinct properties from any known types of objects in the EoR. Near-IR spectroscopy with ground-based 8-10m telescopes and Chandra X-ray observations have revealed a hint of hidden quasar activity in some of these galaxies, but their nature still remains inconclusive. Here we propose an ambitious NIRSpec program to carry out systematic exploration of this intriguing population. We will observe rest-optical emission lines of 10 objects with the highest Ly-alpha luminosity, in order to pin down the source(s) of line excitation via combination of three diagnostics; BPT diagrams, broad components of H-alpha, and detection of He II 4686. Our immediate goal is to establish the first spectroscopically-confirmed sample of obscured quasars in the EoR. We will use the sample to set a lower limit on the early cosmic density of obscured SMBH growth a key ingredient in the models of structure formation happening through the EoR. At the same time, we will exploit the objects without quasar signatures to explore the nature of galaxies emitting such enormous Ly-alpha into the reionizing intergalactic medium.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This program aims to explore the nature of 10 candidate obscured quasars at z ~ 6. Their rest-UV spectra taken with ground-based telescopes (Subaru and GTC) exhibit extremely strong and narrow (~300 km/s) Ly alpha lines and weak continuum emission. We will use NIRSpec to observe their rest-optical spectra, which will provide multiple emission lines with powerful diagnostic powers of line excitation sources, i.e., quasars or star-forming galaxies. The lines we target are He II 4686, H-beta, [OIII] 5007, H-alpha, [N II] 6586, and [S II] 6718, 6732, redshifted to 3.3 - 5.3 um. We will use the G395H grating to observe all these lines at the same time with sufficient resolution for expected line widths of ~300 km/s. The faintest line is He II 4686 with (0.8 - 2.3) x 10^(-18) erg/s/cm2 for the 10 targets, which define our exposure time; 3700 sec (50 groups x 1 integration x 1 exposure x 5 dithers) per target to detect the line with 4 - 12sigma confidence. The targets are point sources under the angular resolution of Subaru Hyper Suprime-Cam (<1 arcsec). We will adopt S200A2 slit, 5-point dither pattern, and FULL subarray in order to exploit the NRSIRS2RAPID readout mode.