---
id: 3426
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Tucker Jones"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "28.01/0"
program_title: "Confirming the population of disk galaxies at z>3"
type: "GO"
---
# 3426 - Confirming the population of disk galaxies at z>3
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3426
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label          | Observing Template             | Science Target               |
| :------------- | :----------------------------- | :--------------------------- |
| `pointing_fin` | `NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy` | `(3) ready_pointing_fin_extraTA_3` |

---

## ABSTRACT

Early deep-field images from JWST have revealed morphologies of high-redshift galaxies that suggest a surprisingly high fraction of disk galaxies at z>3. If confirmed, these results indicate that disks are able to form and settle at earlier times and lower mass scales than predicted by current cosmological simulations. However, resolved spectroscopic data is required to unambiguously confirm the presence of disk galaxies and characterize their dynamical state. We propose to use the multiplexed NIRSpec MSA in slit-stepping mode to spatially map 40-50 galaxies at z=2.4-3.6 (with 30-35 at z>3) with 3-D spectroscopy. This proposal will chart the nebular emission kinematics, allowing us to determine the true fraction of disks and their dynamical properties (in particular the degree of rotational support versus random motion, V/sigma). We will simultaneously measure resolved star formation and metallicity, to understand how the formation of galactic disks is governed by cosmological accretion and feedback. Our target selection provides good sampling across stellar masses 10^9 - 10^11 Msun, enabling us to probe mass-dependent trends at this epoch. Resolving the formation of disk galaxies at z>3 can only be achieved with JWST's unique spatial and spectral resolution at the relevant wavelengths. This program represents a highly efficient survey of the galaxy population at this epoch, requiring a factor 25x less total integration time than the traditional IFU mode.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose a multiplexed integral field spectroscopy (IFS) survey of galaxies at z=2.4-3.6 in the EGS field (mostly at z>3) with the NIRSpec MSA, using a slit-stepping methodology to obtain pseudo-IFU datacubes of 40-50 targets on a single MSA configuration. Our targets are selected to span the normal star forming population with stellar mass > 10^9 Msun. The slit stepping approach is >25 times more efficient than the NIRSpec IFU thanks to the sensitivity and multiplexing capability of the MSA.

**Slit-stepping dither pattern:**
We utilize a slit-stepping pattern with 5 "steps" of 0.2 arcsec (= 1 slitlet width) along the dispersion direction, and 7 dithers of 0.075 arcsec (= 1 bar shadow width) along the cross-dispersion direction. Cross-dispersion steps will eliminate bar shadows and ensure almost perfectly uniform integration time across the resulting pseudo-IFU datacubes. The area is thus 1.0x1.5 arcsec with uniform coverage for a (3+1)-slitlet datacube.

**Instrument setup, depth, and exposure times:**
We use the G235H grating and F170LP filter to map the strong nebular emission lines Halpha, [N II]6548,6584, [S II]6717,6731, Hbeta, and [O III]4959,5007 in all targets. We will use these lines to measure spatially resolved kinematics, metallicity, star formation rate, and BPT ionization diagnostics on 0.1x0.2 arcsecond spatial scales. The high resolution grating is needed to measure kinematics. We require 10-sigma sensitivity to the Halpha emission line at the rotation curve turnover radius (= 2.2 R_s) for our targets. Assuming an exponential disk profile (Sersic n=1) with R_e = 1.8 kpc and average flux 1.6x10^(-17) erg/s/cm^2, the NIRSpec ETC indicates we can reach this sensitivity with 3.7 hours on-source with G235H/F170LP, or 37 minutes per dither position (where 6 out of 7 dithers are "on source" and one is compromised by bar shadows). We use the NRSIRS2 readout mode with 30 groups per integration, and 1 integration at each dither position. The total science time integration time requested is 21.3 hours, translating to 28.0 hours including overheads.