---
id: 3429
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging  NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Christopher Clark"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "23.38/2.2"
program_title: "One-Stop Shopping: Pan-Metallicity PAH Benchmarking in M101"
type: "GO"
---
# 3429 - One-Stop Shopping: Pan-Metallicity PAH Benchmarking in M101
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3429
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
1.  **List of the Labels, the corresponding Observing Template and the Science Targets:**

    **OBSERVATIONS**

    | Label                       | Observing Template | Science Target           |
    | :-------------------------- | :----------------- | :----------------------- |
    | MIRI Nucleus+H602         | MIRI Imaging       | (1) M101-NUCLEUS+H602    |
    | MIRI NGC4562              | MIRI Imaging       | (2) M101-NGC5462         |
    | MIRI NGC5455              | MIRI Imaging       | (3) M101-NGC5455         |
    | MIRI NGC5471              | MIRI Imaging       | (4) M101-NGC5471         |
    | MIRI H27+H67              | MIRI Imaging       | (5) M101-H27+H67         |
    | MIRI H681                 | MIRI Imaging       | (6) M101-H681            |
    | MIRI Background           | MIRI Imaging       | (7) M101-BACKGROUND      |
    | NIRCam Nucleus+H602       | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) M101-NUCLEUS+H602    |
    | NIRCam Nucleus+H602       | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) M101-NUCLEUS+H602    |
    | NIRCam NGC4562            | NIRCam Imaging     | (2) M101-NGC5462         |
    | NIRCam NGC4562            | NIRCam Imaging     | (2) M101-NGC5462         |
    | NIRCam NGC5455            | NIRCam Imaging     | (3) M101-NGC5455         |
    | NIRCam NGC5471            | NIRCam Imaging     | (4) M101-NGC5471         |
    | NIRCam H26+H67            | NIRCam Imaging     | (5) M101-H27+H67         |
    | NIRCam H681               | NIRCam Imaging     | (6) M101-H681            |

## ABSTRACT

    We propose using 23 hours of JWST time to pin down the factors driving PAH variation, especially with respect to metallicity, via a comprehensive multi-parameter benchmarking M101. We will use MIRI and NIRCam imaging to map the strengths of the 3.3, 7.7, and 11.3 um PAH emission features across 6 fields in M101. M101 provides an unparalleled 'controlled laboratory' for this investigation, and has exquisite ancillary data. Our fields sample 0.93 dex in metallicity, 1.6 dex in neutral gas surface density, 2.6 dex in ionized gas surface density, and 3.0 dex in UV radiation field strength. Our selection of 11 filters will provide > 3500 measurements of each feature strength at S/N > 10, with 2 resolution, giving us the statistical power to disentangle the phenomena driving PAH evolution. With this data, will be able to tackle open questions about the formation, evolution, and destruction of PAHs; and test existing models in a uniquely wide range of environments.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

    e plan to observe 6 primary target fields in M101, and one background field beyond its disc. We plan to use 11 NIRCam and MIRI filters: F090W, F187N, F200W, F300M, F335M, F360M, F444W, F770W, F1000W, F1130W, and F1500W. Our objective is to detect PAH feature emission in the F335M, F770W, and F1130W filters. The other filters will be used for continuum measurements (except F187N, which is to detect Paschen-alpha ionized gas emission).

    In two of our fields, existing archival JWST data means that we do not need to observe 300M, F335M, or F360M (and hence do not observe F090W and F200W either).

    Each field has single MIRI footprint centered on the target region. NIRCam module B is centered on the same target region. The NGC5271 and NGC 5462 MIRI fields also employ NIRCam parallels, as the locations of the primary fields mean the parallels are guaranteed to lie in M101, close to our primary fields. We also ask for NIRCam parallels for our MIRI background, to assist with background estimation.

    For MIRI, we use 4-point CYCLING-LARGE dithers. For NIRCam, we use 4-point INTERMODULEX primary dithers; As our analysis will be conducted at 2" resolution, this will provide ample sampling of the NIRCam PSF.

    The predicted emission in each filter for each of our target fields varies considerably. Our S/N requirements are dictated by the need to distinguish the PAH contribution to the overall emission. Our integration times therefore vary considerable, as do our readout modes.

    We have a PA requirement of 135-180 for our MIRI observations, to ensure that all targets of interest fall in the H27+H67 field. As we ask all MIRI observations be conducted in the same visit as the background field, to maximize the usefulness of the MIRI background in extracting very faint diffuse emission.