---
id: 3433
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Johan Richard  Co-PIs: Angela Adamo and Miroslava Dessauges-Zavadsky"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "38.16/0"
program_title: "Mapping star formation and feedback in clumpy galaxies at redshift ~5"
type: "GO"
---
# 3433 - Mapping star formation and feedback in clumpy galaxies at redshift ~5
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3433
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :---- | :----------------- | :------------- |
|       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) MS1358-ARC |
|       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) MS1358-ARC |
|       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (4) MACS0940-ARC |
|       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (4) MACS0940-ARC |
|       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (6) RCS0224-ARC |
|       | NIRCam Imaging     | (10) MS1358-IMAGING |
|       | NIRCam Imaging     | (11) MACS0940-IMAGING |
|       | NIRCam Imaging     | (12) RCS0224-IMAGING |

## ABSTRACT

We propose NIRSpec-IFU spectroscopy and NIRCam imaging to probe star formation and feedback in three exceptionally bright and extended, gravitationally lensed, high redshift (z>4) galaxies, representative of the UV-selected population at these redshifts. Key emission lines (e.g. Halpha, Hbeta, [OIII]) combined with existing MUSE/VLT rest-UV observations, are critical to map the gas physical conditions and kinematics from ~100 pc to kpc scales. NIRCam imaging (complemented with HST) will enable us to derive clump physical properties (size, ages, masses) down to 10s pc. We will: 1. probe disk fragmentation theories; 2. test predictions of increased clump star formation densities with redshift; 3. map the starburst propagation while investigating clump survival. Spatially resolving multiple nebular lines will map key parameters of the interstellar medium (ISM) and evaluate the role of clump feedback. We will trace the global kinematics of the ISM and investigate whether star-forming clumps show a trend in velocity dispersion. We will relate the distribution of ionizing radiation originating from the clumps with the global properties of each galaxy, and the overall morphology and kinematics of the circum-galactic medium seen in Lyalpha emission at large scales. These unprecedented studies are fundamental to uncover how star formation operates in normal galaxies at redshift beyond cosmic noon and inform increasingly detailed cosmological simulations. Extensive deep field campaigns will provide an incredible census of unresolved galaxies at these redshifts, but only studies as we propose here will enable us to dissect star formation and feedback that determine their evolution.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We request NIRSpec IFU spectroscopy and NIRCam imaging of three lensed galaxies at z>4 (MACS0940, RCS0224, MS1358) to measure the resolved spectral line and SED properties of star forming regions across each galaxy. The targets are selected to be extremely magnified (mu>10, straddling on the lensing critical line) by massive lensing clusters at z=0.3-0.7. The NIRSpec observations are taken in G395H (2 integrations per exposure, 20 groups) for all targets, as well as G235M (2 integrations per exposure, 16 groups) for MACS0940. For both configurations the detector setup is NRSIRS2 and an 8 or 4 point medium cycling dithering pattern is used. The corresponding exposure time allows us to detect Halpha emission at >5sigma (peak wavelengths, 0.2arcsec diameter aperture for a point source in the faintest clumps H_AB=28) while recovering additional lines (e.g. [OIII],Hbeta,[NII],[SII]) at >3sigma in multiple regions across each galaxy. We require a specific range of PA to optimise the orientation of the IFU with the elongation of MS1358 and MACS0940.

NIRCam imaging is requested in 4 filters: F115W, F200W, F277W and F356W, using a MEDIUM8 readdout pattern, 3 dither positions and 10 group per integration. The corresponding exposure times allows to reach SNR>5-10 in all filters for the faintest detect clumps (H_AB=28). Each target is centered within a NIRCam detector for maximum exposure time, while the module covers the cluster core and additional background galaxies.