---
id: 3436
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Erik Rosolowsky"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "10.28/2.72"
program_title: "Unmixing the ISM: Identifying Dominant Physical Effects with JWST/MIRI Mapping of M33"
type: "GO"
---
# 3436 - Unmixing the ISM: Identifying Dominant Physical Effects with JWST/MIRI Mapping of M33
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3436
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                          | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :----------------------------- | :----------------- | :------------- |
|                                | MIRI Imaging       | (2) M33-Off    |
|                                | MIRI Imaging       | (1) M-33       |
| Observation 1 Copy of Tile-7 | MIRI Imaging       | (3) M-33-Tile-7 |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose to use JWST/MIRI mapping of the nearby disk galaxy M33 to obtain a high resolution map of the neutral ISM as traced by PAH emission. The proposed map will yield a ~1 pc resolution top-down perspective on the neutral interstellar medium (ISM) spanning 4 scale lengths of the galaxy disk and three distinct galactic environments. We will compare these high quality JWST maps to mock observations from state-of-the-art high resolution simulations with a known range and variation of physical conditions. This comparison will use validated statistical measures that will allow us to determine the best matching physical conditions to different parts of the true ISM, thereby determining the dominant physical effects regulating ISM structure. Our data will also localize phases of molecular gas invisible in CO emission, make unbiased maps of the filamentary structures that regulate star formation, and connect feedback driven bubbles and shells to individual high mass stars and young clusters identified in archival HST data. The coordinated parallel observations will map out a different PAH transition at 3.35 µm to measure changes in PAH ionization and measure the brightest regions at even higher (0.2 pc) linear resolution.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will observe a radial strip in M33 in M33 consisting of 18 mosaic tiles in F770W to detect diffuse PAH emission with a linear resolution of ~1 pc. The mosaic is oriented at a PA between 70 and 80 degrees to avoid the micrometeoroid zone while allowing 1 month of schedulability. We also observe NIRCam Module B in a coordinated parallel. We configure the shift between mosaic tiles in the MIRI mosaic so that the NIRCam observations overlap with part of the MIRI mosaic yielding F200W and F335M imaging in the overlap.
Finally, we propose observations of a single MIRI field off the galaxy to establish the background level for the observations. This field is scheduled with the main observations as a non-interruptible sequence.