---
id: 3445
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Philip Appleton  Co-PIs: Pierre Guillard and Bjorn Emonts"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "22.0/0"
program_title: "Shaken and Stirred: Shocks and Turbulence in the Stephan's Quintet Warm Molecular Filament"
type: "GO"
---
# 3445 - Shaken and Stirred: Shocks and Turbulence in the Stephan's Quintet Warm Molecular Filament
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3445
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                          | Observing Template             | Science Target                        |
| :----------------------------- | :----------------------------- | :------------------------------------ |
| SQ-MRS-COS-P1-SHOCK-CENTER     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) SQ-MRS-COS-P1-SHOCK-CENTER        |
| SQ-MRS-COS-P2-SHOCK-SOUTH      | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) SQ-MRS-COS-P2-SHOCK-SOUTH         |
| SQ-MRS-COS-P3-SHOCK-NORTH      | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) SQ-MRS-COS-P3-SHOCK-NORTH         |
| SQ-MRS-SKY-BACKGROUND          | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (7) SQ-MRS-SKY-BACKGROUND             |
| SQ-MRS-COS-P7-SQA              | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) SQ-MRS-COS-P7-SQA                 |
| SQ-MRS-COS-P5-BRIDGE           | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (5) SQ-MRS-COS-P5-BRIDGE              |
| SQ-MRS-BRIDGE-ALMAFIELD5       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (6) SQ-MRS-BRIDGE-ALMAFIELD5          |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose MIRI MRS spectroscopy of six diverse turbulent regions in the giant molecular shock structure in the Stephan's Quintet group. The 45 kpc shock structure is likely formed ahead of an high-speed intruder galaxy as it collides with an old tidal filament within the main group. Previous Spitzer observations had shown that the dominant emission from the filament is from fragile warm pure-rotational molecular H2 which somehow coexists with million-degree hot X-ray emitting gas. We propose MRS IFU spectroscopy to, a) answer the question about why such strong molecular hydrogen can exist in such a hostile environment in the wake of the 1000 km/s shock wave. We will measure at sub-arcsec resolution, velocity dispersion, bulk kinetic energy, and total luminous power of the clumps of warm H2 revealed in recent ERO JWST MIRI images. We will compare these properties to that of gas in other phases, especially cold H2 mapped on the same resolution by ALMA., b) explore how the dissipation of kinetic energy and mixing of gas phases effects the formation of stars, and c) we will try to understand how the properties of the warm H2 may tie in with the (1500 km/s) extremely broad Ly-alpha shocked gas in the halo of this group. The large extent of the shock, combined with its clean, uncluttered environment (away from major starburst or AGN), make Stephan's Quintet an idea environment to understand how mechnical energy dissipates in multi-phase gas, and how gas cools to form stars. The results will have general significance to many other known (and soon to be discovered by JWST) regions where shock waves pass through large tracts of multi-phase gas.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to perform MIRI MRS Spectroscopy of 6 regions in the Stephan's Quintet group-wide shock. The structures will be extended in the MRS fields, so we used 4pt dithers for each of the six ON observations, and a dedicated sky background observation (Obs 7), with the same number of groups and dithers as all observations, and as deep as the deepest pointing (obs5). We require a non-interruptible sequence to ensure that the OFF is made in the middle of the sequence of ON observations. For reasons of data volume, because the full sequence must be executed in a non-interruptable sequence, we use the SLOWR1 readout pattern to minimize the data volume.