---
id: 3449
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Grace Telford"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "15.41/0"
program_title: "Direct Detection of Molecular Gas in the Extremely Metal-Poor Galaxy Leo P"
type: "GO"
---
# 3449 - Direct Detection of Molecular Gas in the Extremely Metal-Poor Galaxy Leo P
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3449
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                  | Observing Template                 | Science Target |
| :--------------------- | :--------------------------------- | :------------- |
| MIRI MRS Mosaic        | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) LEO-P      |
| MIRI MRS Background    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) LEO-P-OFF  |

## ABSTRACT

Star formation impacts virtually all areas of astrophysics, and yet remains remarkably poorly understood at the low metallicities typical of early galaxies. Observations show that star formation proceeds in molecular gas (largely in undetectable cold H_2) in higher-metallicity galaxies. But the usual tracer of this ISM phase, CO emission, becomes inefficient in metal-poor gas, leaving us without empirical evidence that molecular gas is the dominant fuel for star formation at very low metallicity. Some models predict that stars can form directly from cold HI in these environments, which would profoundly change the trajectory of stellar mass assembly at high redshift.
We propose MIRI MRS observations of the closest extremely metal-poor, star-forming galaxy, Leo P (1.6 Mpc, 3% Z_sun) to search for rotationally excited emission from warm H_2. This 100-1000 K material is typically ~10% of the total H_2 mass in star-forming galaxies, so its detection would imply the presence of cold molecular gas. The combination of Leo P's proximity and MIRI's unprecedented spatial resolution and sensitivity in the MIR uniquely enables robust detection of (or a stringent upper limit on) the compact, warm H_2 clouds expected in the metal-poor ISM. Simultaneously, these observations will be sensitive to PAH emission, dust continuum, and fine-structure nebular lines from the galaxy's only HII region, all of which will provide new insight into the impacts of radiation field hardness and intensity in metal-poor environments. This proposal will fundamentally shape our understanding of star-formation physics in metal-poor galaxies, both locally and at high redshift.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will observe Leo P with MIRI MRS with a primary goal of detecting rotationally excited transitions of warm molecular hydrogen. To cover the full region of the galaxy where the emission is expected requires a 2x2 mosaic. We select Channel 3 as the primary for mosaic construction (with 10% overlap in the Channel 3 field of view) to maximize the extent of the mosaic while ensuring complete spatial coverage for the S(1) line at 17 micron, which is expected to give the most sensitive limit. The lines of interest span all three grating settings (ABC), so we require three observations of the mosaic, one at each grating setting. We request MIRI simultaneous imaging as recommended for astrometric alignment and select the F560W, F770W filters for their high spatial resolution, as well as the F2100W filter for its sensitivity to dust continuum and dust-producing, evolved stars. APT gives an Imager Filter overlap warning for the F2100W filter, but this will not impact our science goals. The SLOWR1 readout pattern is necessary to stay within the data volume limits. We adopt the 4-pt dither pattern optimized for extended sources to improve PSF sampling and obtain a background observation for each grating setting at an offset of -50 arcsec in both the X and Y directions from the science target to ensure that the MIRI simultaneous imaging covers Leo P while the offset field is observed with MRS. As recommended in JDOX, we require that the backgrounds are observed in a non-interruptible sequence with the science observations. These observations do not require target acquisition. We adopt 12 groups/int in the JWST ETC v2 to stay below the 300s limit recommended to mitigate the impacts of cosmic rays. To reach achieve S/N=5 at the surface brightness limit of the S(1) line required by our science goals requires 2 integrations (x the 4 exposures in the dither pattern) for a total time request of 15.4 hours from the APT.