---
id: 3468
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Ariel Goobar"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "2.9/0"
program_title: "Measuring the Hubble constant with the next multiple-imaged lensed supernova"
type: "GO, Non-Disruptive ToO"
---
# 3468 - Measuring the Hubble constant with the next multiple-imaged lensed supernova
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3468
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label          | Observing Template         | Science Target   |
| :------------- | :------------------------- | :--------------- |
| imaging visit  | NIRCam Imaging             | (1) AT2025mkn    |
| imaging visit  | NIRCam Imaging             | (1) AT2025mkn    |
| position 1     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy   | (1) AT2025mkn    |

---

## ABSTRACT

Spectroscopic time-delay measurements of multiply-imaged supernovae offer a very efficient way to measure the expansion rate of the universe. NIRCam and NIRSpec follow-up observations with JWST upon the next lensed supernova (SN) discovered by teh Zwicky Transient Facility (ZTF) could pave the way for a novel technique to measure the Hubble constant and adress the "Hubble tension". Unlike any other time-delay measurement, spectroscopic dating of multiple SN images can be done without repeated observations. We propose to select a suitable lensed survey for ToO observations and anticipate a 5% (or better) measurement of H0, with only 3 hours of JWST time.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to carry out non-disruptive ToO observations of a strongly lensed, multiply-imaged, supernova discovered by the ZTF. Thanks to the unique combination of near-IR sensitivity, througput and angular resolution, JWST observations will allow us to measure positions and the spectroscopic time-delays between resolved multiple images, the latter with an accuracy of about half a day. We will accomplish this through SED dating of the individual resolved SN images, with the aim to establish a novel and powerful technique to measure the Hubble constant with strongly lensed supernovae. The requested observations will allow us to measure H0 with 5% accuracy or better. This is particularly timely given the "Hubble tension", arguably the hottest issue in cosmology today.