---
id: 3477
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Jeong-Eun Lee"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "6.4/0"
program_title: "EPISODE: EC 53, the only known Periodically variable Infant Star to chase the Outburst in the next Dynamical Event"
type: "GO"
---
# 3477 - EPISODE: EC 53, the only known Periodically variable Infant Star to chase the Outburst in the next Dynamical Event
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3477
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                      | Observing Template              | Science Target             |
| :------------------------- | :------------------------------ | :------------------------- |
| NIRSPEC_burst_phase        | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy        | (7) EC53-nobkg-epoch2      |
| MIRI_burst_phase           | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (6) EC53-epoch2            |
| MIRI_burst_phase_bkg       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (8) EC53-background-epoch2 |
| NIRSPEC_quiescent_phase    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy        | (5) EC53-nobkg             |
| MIRI_quiescent_phase       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) EC53                   |
| MIRI_quiescent_phase_bkg   | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) EC53-background        |

---

## ABSTRACT

Despite the importance of episodic accretion in the star formation process and its significant role in changing physical and chemical structures of the protostellar system, coherent observational studies tracing a full cycle of accretion burst from a single protostar have never been performed. Protostellar outbursts are rare and usually unpredictable, making such observations challenging, but one embedded Class I protostar, EC 53, shows cyclical bursts. Using this unique laboratory, we propose NIRSPEC and MIRI IFU observations to trace variations of chemical compositions in response to burst accretion. Spatially resolved NIR and MIR spectra will reveal the distributions of ice and gas species, including complex organic molecules, in the disk and envelope. Time-constrained observations designed to catch the quiescent and burst phases will allow us to directly compare the chemical differences following the changes in the locations of sublimation fronts of the most abundant species (CO, CO2, and H2O) and the changes in the strength of hot molecular emission.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to observe EC 53, a Class I protostellar system located in Serpens Main cloud, which shows quasi-periodic accretion bursts. Using the predictable burst event of the source, this proposal aims to investigate the ice and gas compositions of the disk and inner envelope and their variations. NIRSPEC and MIRI IFU observations will provide spatially resolved distributions of various species. The NIR spectra of NIRSPEC include chemically important ice features, such as H2O at 3.0 micron, CO2 at 4.27 micron, and CO at 4.67 micron, as well as warm gaseous emission from the disk surface scattered out along the outflow cavity walls. The MIR spectra of MIRI over ~5-28 micron will observe absorption features by a bulk of icy complex organic molecules and thermal emissions from the disk surface and hot inner envelope. To trace the chemical compositions of the disk and envelope of a protostellar system and understand their variations caused by an accretion burst, we propose time constrained observations toward EC 53. Using the constructed light curves, the next cycles of quiescent and burst phases are determined.

We will use a 4-point dither pattern with target acquisition for each epoch and instrument, with a dedicated background observation of nearby regions of the Serpens cloud. This will maximize the chance of our source landing in the same pixel in each epoch, which will be crucial for cross-epoch comparison of this variable object.

---