---
id: 3486
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/LRS  NIRSpec/FS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Johanna Vos"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "9.5/0"
program_title: "Equator-to-Pole Atmospheric Differences in Giant Exoplanet Analogs"
type: "GO"
---
# 3486 - Equator-to-Pole Atmospheric Differences in Giant Exoplanet Analogs
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3486
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                | Observing Template              | Science Target                      |
| :------------------- | :------------------------------ | :---------------------------------- |
| 2M0355 - MIRI        | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) 2MASS-J03552337+1133437         |
| 2M0355 - NIRSpec     | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (2) 2MASS-J03552337+1133437         |
| W1741 - MIRI         | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) 2MASS-J17410280-4642218         |
| W1741 - NIRSpec      | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (1) 2MASS-J17410280-4642218         |
| 2M2206 - MIRI        | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) 2MASSW-J2206450-421721          |
| 2M2206 - NIRSpec     | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (3) 2MASSW-J2206450-421721          |
| W0047 - MIRI         | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) 2MASS-J00470038+6803543         |
| W0047 - NIRSpec      | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (4) 2MASS-J00470038+6803543         |
| 2M2244 - MIRI        | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (5) 2MASS-J22443167+2043433         |
| 2M2244 - NIRSpec     | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (5) 2MASS-J22443167+2043433         |
| 2M0642 - MIRI        | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (6) 2MASS-J06420559+4101599         |
| 2M0642 - NIRSpec     | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (6) 2MASS-J06420559+4101599         |

---

## ABSTRACT

With the launch of JWST, we are entering the era of direct exoplanet characterization studies. Based on the handful of directly-imaged exoplanets studied to date, it is clear that interpretation of these discoveries hinges on a thorough understanding of their atmospheres. There is growing evidence that these clouds are inhomogeneously distributed in latitude, with thicker clouds at the equator relative to the poles. If cloud and atmospheric properties change significantly from equator to pole, then the observed spectral diversity among giant extrasolar atmospheres may be explained by viewing angle. JWST provides a unique opportunity to directly test this. We propose to test the latitudinal dependence of cloud and atmospheric properties in a uniform sample of isolated giant exoplanet analogs. Searching for atmospheric equator-to-pole differences in giant exoplanet analogs is essential for understanding the atmospheres of extrasolar worlds ranging from brown dwarfs to bona fide directly imaged exoplanets.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose for MIRI/LRS and NIRSpec/Prism spectra for 6 targets to test the effect of viewing angle on the cloud and atmospheric properties. Contemporaneous coverage from 1-14 µm is necessary to reveal the detailed atmospheric properties of each of our highly variable targets.

**MIRI/LRS spectra:**
We will obtain a MIRI/LRS fixed-slit spectrum for each target. We will use the default P750L disperser and FULL subarray. We will use the FAST readout pattern, which is suitable for our purposes by ensuring no saturation while also providing adequate samples up the ramp. Based on investigations of currently available Spitzer/IRS data], we find that SNR= 75 at 10 µm enables a robust analysis of the silicate feature. We use the JWST Exposure Time Calculator to determine the exposure time needed to obtain 5-12 µm spectra with SNR > 75 at 10 µm using a 1200K or 1500K, log(g) = 4.5, BT-Settl model re-normalised to each object's magnitude in Spitzer Channel 1. For target acquisition, we use the F1000W filter, the FULL subarray, FAST readout pattern and 4 groups for all targets. We reach SNR > 50 for all targets in target acquisition. We use the FULL subarray, FAST readout pattern and an AB nod pattern for sky subtraction. We reach the desired SNR for each target with less than 2 minutes of exposure time per target. The ETC reports no problems with data volume. Only one target has a bright source nearby, and we specify orient ranges to ensure that the bright source does not fall in the MIRI imager during the observation.

**NIRSpec/Prism spectra:**
We request NIRSpec spectra taken during the same visit as MIRI spectra, critically providing a near-simultaneous spectrum from 0.6-5.3 µm at a resolution of R~100. This resolution is sufficient for resolving important water, methane and carbon monoxide features, and to assess the bulk atmospheric properties at the time of observation. We use the JWST ETC to determine the exposure times and detector setup appropriate for our targets. We use a 1200K or 1500K, log(g) = 4.5, BT-Settl model renormalised to each object's magnitude in J2MASS. We will use the same detector setup for all targets, only changing the exposure times. We will use the WATA acquisition mode with the CLEAR filter, and NRSRAPID readout pattern for target acquisition, ensuring SNR > 30 for all targets. For our science observations, we use the Prism/CLEAR grating/filter pair, the S200A1 slit and the NRSRAPID readout pattern. We will observe in an AB nod pattern, and increase the Groups per integration to reach SNR> 100 to ensure that we can adequately constrain the atmospheric properties. Our longest exposure time for our faintest target is ~30 s.