---
id: 3496
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Johanna Vos"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "18.98/0"
program_title: "How Deep are the Winds in an Extrasolar World?"
type: "GO"
---
# 3496 - How Deep are the Winds in an Extrasolar World?
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3496
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template            | Science Target               |
| :---- | :---------------------------- | :--------------------------- |
|       | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) 2MASSW-J1047539+212423   |
|       | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (2) 2MASSW-J1047539+212423-updated |

---

## ABSTRACT

The vertical structure of atmospheric winds is critical for understanding global-scale circulation on giant planets within our solar system and presumably beyond. Due to their fast rotation, brown dwarfs are in the same dynamical regime as Jupiter and Saturn. Fortunately, their complex atmospheres provide cloud features that allow us to trace the atmospheric dynamics. We propose for 15 hr of monitoring with JWST/NIRSpec to measure the first vertically-resolved atmospheric wind speeds in any extrasolar atmosphere. This program will revolutionize the study of giant extrasolar atmospheres by providing a new method of probing atmospheric dynamics through vertically-resolved wind speeds.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose for 15 hr of JWST/NIRSpec monitoring of the brown dwarf 2MASS 1047. Following the recommended strategies for time series observations with NIRSpec, we will use the Bright Object Time Series (BOTS) mode with the Prism filter and S1600A1 slit. To avoid saturating the detector, we use the SUB2048 subarray, the NRS readout pattern and 3 groups per integration to achieve 12 s cadence. We add on a 30 minute settling time to the beginning of our observation, following the recommendations from the JWST User Documentation and after consultation with the JWST Helpdesk. According to the ETC we will reach SNR of ~190 in the J-band peak per 12 second exposure.