---
id: 3503
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Angela Adamo"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "7.55/0"
program_title: "Mapping the rapidly evolving interstellar medium of emerging young star clusters"
type: "GO"
---
# 3503 - Mapping the rapidly evolving interstellar medium of emerging young star clusters
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3503
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                        | Observing Template            | Science Target               |
| :--------------------------- | :---------------------------- | :--------------------------- |
| WGyes\_20step\_3conf\_fin5 | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (3) table\_eysc\_MSA\_master |
| WGyes\_20step\_3conf\_fin6 | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (3) table\_eysc\_MSA\_master |

---

## ABSTRACT

Thanks to JWST's game-changing capabilities the critical but poorly understood process of star cluster emergence from their natal clouds can be observed in a range of extragalactic environments beyond the Local Group. NIRCam imaging studies sampling stellar continua, Paa(1.87 micron), Bra(4.05 micron) and 3.35 micron PAH emission of the spiral NGC628 have revealed ~1800 candidate emerging clusters (eYSCs). Within this large sample, variations in the SEDs and MIR colors of the eYSCs suggest a rapid evolutionary sequence of the HII and photo-dissociation regions (PDRs) as the clusters clear their surroundings. The details of this fundamental process will be established through spectroscopy. We propose a pilot NIRSpec/MSA 1-5 micron study of a representative sample of ~100 eYSCs in NGC 628 to measure rapid evolutionary changes occurring on the ~10 pc scales of star clusters. This dataset will: 1) Diagnose stellar feedback (e.g., photoionisation and shocks) using H and He recombination lines and the de-excited [FeII] transition. 2) Explore the properties of warm molecular gas from H2 emission and its relationships to the rapidly evolution of the PDRs. 3) Extend our understanding of PAH properties by resolving the strengths of the 3.35 mu PAH emission in its fundamental (aromatic and aliphatic) components as a way to chart the evolution of dust properties as clusters emerge. These unprecedented results can only be achieved with JWST spectroscopy and will be fundamental to inform our understanding of the separation of star clusters from their molecular fuel supplies while also informing radiative models used to study the larger scale IR emission of local and distant galaxies.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will get NIRSpec MOS observations of ~100 embedded young star clusters newly detected in JWST/NIRcam imaging in NGC628. Key line emissions necessary to achieve our science goals are over the 1--to--5 micron range.
The selected spectral configuration consists of disperser G140M and filter F100LP, G235M/F170LP, and G395M/F290LP. We opt for 3-shutter nodding pattern and no large dither to recover the spectral gaps. We use as readout NRSIRS2RAPID. A integration of 30 groups times 3 exposures (i.e., noddings) is sufficient to reach the necessary S/N to conduct our science in all the 3 settings.
Our target position, obtained from NIRCam data, is known with a precision of 10 mas. We have used the MSA planning tool to simulate the efficiency of the setup and maximise the number of targets for which we obtain spectra. The best results (and highest efficiency) are achieved by using a 3-nodding strategy, with a 3 shutter slitlet, entire open area of the shutter as centring, and 3 configurations over a search grid centred of the galaxy and as large as the NIRCam FoV. We do not allow for targets spectra to overlap. In total between 90 and 100 targets can be planned (depending if we use monte carlo shuffling or weights).