---
id: 3514
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/LRS  NIRSpec/FS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Mickael Bonnefoy  Co-PIs: Caroline Morley and Gael Chauvin"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "8.22/0"
program_title: "Panchromatic view of an Adolescent and Frigid Jovian Exoplanet"
type: "GO"
---
# 3514 - Panchromatic view of an Adolescent and Frigid Jovian Exoplanet
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3514
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label   | Observing Template              | Science Target                  |
| :------ | :------------------------------ | :------------------------------ |
| NIRSPEC | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (1) WISEP-J075108.79-763449.6   |
| MIRI    | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) WISEP-J075108.79-763449.6   |

## ABSTRACT

Direct imaging has started unveiling the physical and atmospheric properties of young and hot (700-2700K) Jovian exoplanets. The recent detection of COCONUTS-2b, a 6MJup planet at 6471au from its host star challenges proposed formation models. The object is the coldest exoplanet identified around a star younger than 1Gyr, offering to extend our knowledge of the atmosphere of cool young Jovians at frigid temperatures where a larger diversity of molecular compounds condense and leave deep imprints in infrared spectra.

We propose to conduct an in-depth spectroscopic investigation of that exoplanet from 0.6-14microns with the JWST. We will determine accurately the bulk characteristics (mass, Teff, luminosity) of the object to better understand its formation. We will study the magnitude of non-equilibrium chemistry and formation of resurgent clouds proposed to happen at these extreme Teffs. We will constrain the abundances of key formation tracers (C/O, M/H, S/Fe, P/Fe) to better understand the object origin. To conclude, we will measure for the first time the abundance of CH3D -- and D/H -- in the atmosphere of an exoplanet. The companion is both exceptionally bright, cold, and should not have been fusing deuterium to allow for that measurement. Deuterium abundance could be used to improve the Deuterium-burning models, setting the dividing line between planets and brown-dwarfs. We will also compare the D/H to ISM, protoplanetary disk, and Jupiter values to draw a consistent picture of the formation of that exoplanet and contextualize our Solar System.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will observe the faint and ultracool exoplanet companion COCONUTS-2b (=WISEPA J075108.79-763449.6) with the fixed-slit modes of NIRSpec and MIRI.

We will collect at two visits:
*VISIT 1:i/ a low-resolution R=100 NIRpec-PRISM, 0.60-5.30microns of the source. This setup gives access to the near-infrared (1-2.5 microns) where the object displays characteristic bands sensitive to Teff, surface gravity, metallicity, and clouds; ii/ a low-resolution R=100 MIRI-LRS 5.0-1 micron spectrum giving extra sensitivity to non-equilibrum chemistry of N2/NH3 and clouds. Both NIRSPec observations are conducted with the S200 slit at standard orientation.
*VISIT 2: a higher-resolution (R=2700) high signal-to-noise F290LP/G395H 2.9-5.3 microns spectrum of the peak emission region of the companion. The spectrum will give access to a rich set of rovibrational molecular absorptions of H2O, CO, CH4, N3, CO2, H2S, PH3. It will also allow detecting the methane isotopologue (CH3D) to measure the D/H ratio of COCONUTS-2b.

In summary, the total charged time is 8.80 hours, including 5.31 hours of science time from the APT calculator.