---
id: 3522
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/FS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Jean-Baptiste Ruffio"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "11.12/0"
program_title: "Spectroscopic characterization of the smallest and coolest directly imaged exoplanet 51 Eridani b"
type: "GO"
---
# 3522 - Spectroscopic characterization of the smallest and coolest directly imaged exoplanet 51 Eridani b
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3522
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                               | Observing Template             | Science Target                     |
| :---------------------------------- | :----------------------------- | :--------------------------------- |
| 51 Eri S200A1 (planet and speckles) | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (6) Group 51-Eri-b-and-speckles    |
| 51 Eri S200A2 (planet and speckles) | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (6) Group 51-Eri-b-and-speckles    |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose to spectroscopically characterize the atmosphere of 51 Eridani b, the lowest-mass (2-4 MJup) and coolest (Teff~600-850 K) directly imaged exoplanet. We will obtain R~2,700 fixed-slit NIRSpec spectra between 3-5 um, targeting the peak flux of this young Jupiter and enabling the detection of molecular lines from species such as CH4, CO, CO2, and H2O. These detections will be used to derive the metallicity, carbon-to-oxygen ratio, disequilibrium chemistry, and cloud properties of 51 Eri b. With its low temperature and partially cloudy or wholly cloud-free atmosphere, 51 Eri b is one of the most interesting directly imaged exoplanets for the purpose of comparative exoplanetology, representing a bridge between wide-orbit super-Jovian worlds and our own Jupiter.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to use NIRSpec 200mas wide fixed slits (S200A1 and S200A2) with the 2.9-5.1 filter (F290LP) at moderate resolution (G395H; R~2,700) to measure the composition of 51 Eridani b and inform the formation pathway of directly imaged exoplanets. In cycle 2, the planet will be 300mas away from the star and we require the slit to be oriented perpendicular to the planet-star axis to avoid saturation. The science observation will be dominated by the light from the stellar halo and therefore requires reference observation of the speckle field on the other side of the star. This reference spectra will be used to model and/or subtract the stellar light in the science data that includes the planet signal. The observations will be split into otherwise identical sequences between the two 200mas slits. The host star (51 Eridani) being too bright for target acquisition, an offset star with Gaia astrometry will be used.