---
id: 3523
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging  NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Mario Guarcello  Co-PIs: Morten Andersen, William Best, Daniela Calzetti, Mario Gennaro and others*"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "24.7/0"
program_title: "Evolution of protoplanetary disks and early stellar evolution in starburst: A NIRCam and MIRI observation of the young starburst cluster Westerlund 2"
type: "GO"
---
# 3523 - Evolution of protoplanetary disks and early stellar evolution in starburst: A NIRCam and MIRI observation of the young starburst cluster Westerlund 2
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3523
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label            | Observing Template | Science Target                   |
| :--------------- | :----------------- | :------------------------------- |
| NIRCAM - Wd2     | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) CL-WESTERLUND-2-NIRCAM       |
| NIRCAM - Wd2     | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) CL-WESTERLUND-2-NIRCAM       |
| MIRI - Wd2       | MIRI Imaging       | (2) CL-WESTERLUND-2-MIRI         |
| NIRCAM - CF      | NIRCam Imaging     | (3) CONTROLFIELD                 |
| MIRI - CF        | MIRI Imaging       | (3) CONTROLFIELD                 |

## ABSTRACT

The aim of this proposal is to extend our understanding of the environmental effects on the evolution of protoplanetary disks, the formation of planets, the early stellar evolution, and the stellar mass distribution well within the brown dwarf regime to the starburst regime. The large distances to starburst clusters make the JWST the only instrument (for a long time to come) capable of providing the required high spatial resolution and sensitivity in bands where disk emission is prominent. Besides, starburst environments are rare in our Galaxy today, but they are common in the early Universe, star forming and merging galaxies. We thus ask NIRCAM and MIRI observations of the 1-2 Myrs old starburst clusters Westerlund 2 in a set of wide and narrow filters, in order to: 1) select stars with disks from color-color and color-magnitude diagrams; 2) study disks properties from the analysis of their Spectral Energy Distributions, accretion from NIRCAM narrow band images, and the dust population in disks from MIRI observations; 3) correlate the spatial variation of the disk fraction and the average disk properties with local UV fields and stellar density, in order to assess the effects of the environment on disks evolution and dispersal; 4) Derive the IMF down in low-mass stars and brown dwarf regime and compare it with other clusters with different environments in order to understand if the low-mass end of the IMF is affected by the starburst environments.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

With a distance from the Sun of 4.16 kpc (Vargas Alvarez et al. 2013) and a total mass of about 36000 Solar masses (Zeidler et al. 2017), Westerlund 2 (1-2 Myrs) is the best target to extend our knowledge of star formation and the evolution of protoplanetary disks in starburst environment. We plan to test whether the intense local ionizing flux and stellar density in Westerlund 2 induce a fast erosion of circumstellar disks, likely hampering the formation of planetary systems around the young low mass stars of the cluster. We also plan to test theories predicting that in extremely dense clusters with intense local ionizing fields, such as Westerlund 2, the mass distribution of newborn stars well below the brown dwarf limit is different than in the typical low-density star forming regions in the Solar neighbourhood. Since starburst clusters are typical star-forming environment in the early Universe and starburst galaxies, our study will constitute a true step forward our understanding of the products of stars and planets formation across the evolution of galaxies. Combined with extisting observations of Westerlund 1 (slightly more massive but older, with an estimated age of about 5 Myrs, than Westerlund 2), these observations will allow us to understand the timescales of the environment feedback on star and planet formation. Stars with disks in Westerlund 2 will be selected from the analysis of the Spectral Energy Distribution of these sources and suitable color-color and color-magnitude diagrams. The whole stellar content of the cluster will be instead determined from the X-ray observations, dynamical analysis based on HST and JWST observations, covering a temporal baseline of 17 years, and the comparison of the magnitude distribution of stars in the cluster and in a control field. To this aim, we ask NIRCAM observations in 16 wide, medium and narrow filters and MIRI observations in three wide filters. NIRCAM observations are set with 7 groups, 1 integration and 4 subxiel positions, adopting the SHALLOW4 readout mode and the FULL subarray; MIRI observations are instead set adopting 15 groups in 4 integrations and one exposure, using the FAST readout mode and FULL subarray. The observing strategy will result in not saturated images for GKM stars down to the low-mass regime, with a S/N ratio allowing detection of stars in the brown-dwarfs regime (down to 5 MJ) in the NIRCAM wide and medium filters. We did not adopt any primary dither pattern with NIRCAM, since the cluster fits inside one module. We set the 4-POINT-SET dither for the MIRI images in a 3×3 mosaic.