---
id: 3526
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/FS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Joseph Hennawi  Co-PI: Suk Sien Tie"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "19.76/0"
program_title: "Probing Reionization and Early Cosmic Enrichment with the MgII Forest"
type: "GO"
---
# 3526 - Probing Reionization and Early Cosmic Enrichment with the MgII Forest
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3526
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label        | Observing Template          | Science Target           |
| :----------- | :-------------------------- | :----------------------- |
| J0038-0653   | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (1) QSO-J0038-0653     |
| J0313-1806   | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (2) QSO-J0313-1806     |
| J1007+2115   | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (4) QSO-J1007+2115     |
| J0038-1527   | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (5) QSO-J003836.10-152723.6 |
| J0252-0503   | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (6) QSO-J0252-0503     |
| J0410-0139   | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (3) QSO-J0410-0139     |

---

## ABSTRACT

Understanding how reionization occurred and the nature of the early sources that drove it are among the most important open questions in cosmology. In the process of producing the roughly three ionizing photons per hydrogen atom required to reionize the IGM, the same massive stars explode and eject metals into their surroundings, enriching the Universe to a metallicity of Z~10^-3. While the overly sensitive Ly-alpha transition makes Gunn-Peterson absorption an ineffective probe of reionization at z>6, strong low-ionization transitions like the MgII 2796,2804 doublet will give rise to a detectable 'metal-line forest', if the metals produced during reionization pollute the neutral IGM. A novel statistical approach leveraging techniques from precision cosmology has recently been developed to detect this signal, thereby allowing one to constrain early IGM enrichment and trace the history and topology of reionization with cosmic time. We request deep NIRSpec observations of six z>7 quasars to realize this qualitatively new absorption spectroscopy experiment. These new data will be combined with comparable quality spectra of two z>7 quasars from approved programs to yield a statistical sample of eight absorption spectra with unprecedented sensitivity (S/N~80). With this combined sample, we expect to make a 10sigma detection of the MgII forest, and jointly constrain the metallicty [Mg/H] and the neutral fraction to a 1sigma precision of 0.04 dex and 8%, respectively. If the IGM is pristine, we will constrain [Mg/H]<-3.94 at 95% confidence, close to the critical metallicity of -4 that defines the transition from the PopIII to PopII star-formation mode.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We are targeting 6 bright quasars at 7<z<7.6 with NIRSpec in fixed slit mode through the G235H/F170LP filter in order to observe the redshifted MgII forest along the lines-of-sight of these quasars.

Below is the summary of the observing plan:

NIRSpec FS OBSERVATION
------------------------
2 quasars (J0313-1806 and J1007+2115) will be placed in slit S200A1 while the rest of the targets will be placed in slit S200A2.

All targets will be observed through G235H/F170LP to do spectroscopy from 1.66 - 3.05 micron. We will use the NRSIRS2RAPID readout and FULL subarray for all targets. We will use 3 dither positions for 2 quasars (J0038-0653 and J0038-1527) and 5 dither positions for the rest.

We will use WATA for target acquisition.

Visit 1: J0038-0653 (1.2 hrs science, 2.5 hrs total)
Visit 2: J0313-1806 (2.1 hrs science, 3.6 hrs total)
Visit 3: J0410-0139 (2.9 hrs science, 4.7 hrs total)
Visit 4: J1007-2115 (2.1 hrs science, 3.6 hrs total)
Visit 5: J0038-1527 (1.2 hrs science, 2.1 hrs total)
Visit 6: J0252-0503 (1.8 hrs science, 3.3 hrs total)