---
id: 3533
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Alessandra Aloisi  Co-PI: Leslie Hunt"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "24.4/0"
program_title: "A JWST high-definition view of an extremely metal-poor interstellar medium"
type: "GO"
---
# 3533 - A JWST high-definition view of an extremely metal-poor interstellar medium
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3533
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label             | Observing Template               | Science Target |
| :---------------- | :------------------------------- | :------------- |
| IZw18 MRS N       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (8) IZW18N     |
| IZw18 MRS S       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (7) IZW18S     |
| IZw18 MRS-BCK     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (5) IZW18-BCK  |

## ABSTRACT

JWST has only just begun the quest to understand star formation in the metal-poor, low-mass dwarf galaxy population around the Epoch of Reionization and beyond. However, spatially-resolved studies will remain elusive. The most extreme blue compact dwarf galaxies (BCDs) in the Local Universe have properties that are reminiscent of this high-z dwarf population, and could provide a detailed answer to the question of how stars form in a low-metallicity environment. Here we propose MIRI/MRS spectroscopy of the most extreme BCD, I Zw 18, at a distance of 18.2 Mpc. Its extremely low metal abundance (2-3% solar), and its high specific star-formation rate (sSFR = 10^-7 - 10^-8/yr) powered by two massive star clusters, make it the best approximation we have for star formation in the nearly pristine interstellar medium (ISM) at early epochs. Our observations are designed to map at 25-50 pc resolution the constituents of the ISM in this well-studied iconic target. We will analyze the warm H2 properties through spatially-resolved H2 excitation diagrams; identify PAH features around the HII regions driven by the two massive star clusters; and finally assess the hardness of the interstellar radiation field through fine-structure lines. Only JWST can provide the ultimate characterization of the structure of the ISM in extreme low-metallicity environments, and shed light on the local star-formation processes that govern galaxy formation and evolution in the early Universe.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will observe I Zw 18 with MIRI MRS and MIRI imaging (in parallel).

We will acquire complete MIRI MRS coverage (A, B, C) to map the warm molecular and ionized gas as well as dust, measure the hardness + intensity of the ISRF, and provide a comprehensive view of the ISM on scales of ~ 25-50 pc in this galaxy. Two pointings are necessary to cover the central parts of I Zw18. We have used the SLOWR1 readout, 4-point dither pattern with Ngrp = (40, 40, 35) so as not to exceed the 1000s maximum recommended integration length.

MIRI imaging (simultaneously with MIRI MRS background) will be acquired in the three filters F560W, F1130W, and F2550W, none of which are already acquired in GTO. These observations will allow to map warm dust at additional wavelengths. These observations, with FASTR1 readout, will also have a 4-point dither pattern with Ngrp = (80, 50, 40), respectively, for the three filters, and 1 integration for F2550W, and 2 for the remaining filters.

We will request a specific PA in order to map I Zw 18 with MIRI MRS and simultaneously acquire MIRI Imaging during the MIRI MRS background acquisitions. For I Zw 18 we have selected the orientation angle range of PA = 135-145 degrees, as this is in the permitted schedulable range.