---
id: 3535
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Ismael Garcia Bernete  Co-PI: Dimitra Rigopoulou"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "11.88/0"
program_title: "Unveiling the AGN-host connection with PAH molecules"
type: "GO"
---
# 3535 - Unveiling the AGN-host connection with PAH molecules
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3535
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                | Observing Template                       | Science Target          |
| :------------------- | :--------------------------------------- | :---------------------- |
| 4051_BKG             | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy      | (4) NGC-4051-BKG        |
| 4051                 | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy      | (1) NGC-4051            |
| 4051_NIRSPEC         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy                 | (7) NGC-4051-NIRSpec    |
| 3227_BKG             | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy      | (5) NGC-3227-BKG        |
| 3227                 | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy      | (2) NGC-3227            |
| 3227_NIRSPEC         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy                 | (8) NGC-3227-NIRSpec    |
| 7582_BKG             | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy      | (6) NGC-7582-BKG        |
| 7582                 | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy      | (3) NGC-7582            |
| NGC7582_NIRSPEC      | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy                 | (9) NGC-7582-NIRSpec    |

---

## ABSTRACT

Supermassive black holes (SMBHs) are believed to play an instrumental role in the evolution of their hosts. There is evidence that the AGN interacts with the dust and gas in the host galaxy. Material is also driven inwards from the interstellar medium of the host galaxy to fuel the central engine that could initiate star formation. Numerical simulations predict that in active galactic nuclei (AGN) star formation in the nuclear region is should be tightly correlated with the growth of the supermassive black hole.

Capitalising on existing JWST cycle 1 programs and targets we propose to obtain NIRSPEC/IFU & MIRI/MRS 2.9-28.5 micron observations of the central <350 pc regions of 3 well known nearby Seyfert galaxies, achieving typical resolutions of 10-60 pc.

Using spectral signatures from Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbons (PAHs) and a host of mid-infrared fine structure lines and H2 rotational transitions our goals are two-fold: (1) to probe the effects of the central AGN on the the interstellar medium (ISM) of the host galaxy as a function of distance from the central engine. PAH emission and low excitation fine structure (FS) lines will also be used to trace nuclear star formation. (2) to investigate the role of the warm molecular gas in shielding PAH molecules (protect them from the AGN radiation field). This investigation is of paramount importance as PAHs are routinely used to measure SFR in AGN.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We request observations of the nuclear regions of 3 Seyfert galaxies using NIRSpec and the grating/filter G394H/F290LP (2.9–5.1 microns) together with the full 4.9–28.5 microns range using all the channels on the MIRI/MRS. We will use a 4-point dither for the galaxy observations and obtain the recommended 2-point dither background observation for each target. To avoid saturation, we will use the NRSIRS2RAPID and FAST readout pattern mode for NIRSpec and MIRI/MRS, respectively. For NIRSpec we will use between 5 and 10 groups and 2/3 integrations for each dither point, and for MIRI/MRS we will use between 65 and 80 groups and 1 integration for each of the dither point. Additionally, in the case of MIRI/MRS observation we will obtain simultaneous observations with MIRI/MIRIM using three filters, namely, F560W, F770W, and F1130W. However, we do not restrict the PA of the background observations. Finally, we require one integration of the same number of groups for each NIRSpec observation to take care of leakage corrections.