---
id: 3543
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Adam Carnall  Co-PI: Fergus Cullen"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "72.58/0"
program_title: "Old Galaxies in the young Universe: Ultra-deep continuum spectroscopy before cosmic noon"
type: "GO"
---
# 3543 - Old Galaxies in the young Universe: Ultra-deep continuum spectroscopy before cosmic noon
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3543
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
**1. List of Labels, Observing Template, and Science Targets:**

| Folder | Observation | Label                                   | Observing Template                | Science Target                     |
| :----- | :---------- | :-------------------------------------- | :-------------------------------- | :--------------------------------- |
| 1      | 1           | p1_g140m, p1_g235m, p1_g395m           | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy  | (2) excels_apt_cat_pointing_1      |
| 2      | 2           | p2_g140m, p2_g235m, p2_g395m           | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy  | (3) excels_apt_cat_pointing_2      |
| 3      | 3           | p3_g140m, p3_g235m, p3_g395m           | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy  | (4) excels_apt_cat_pointing_3      |
| 4      | 4           | p4_g140m, p4_g235m, p4_g395m           | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy  | (5) excels_apt_cat_pointing_4      |

## ABSTRACT

We propose ultra-deep rest-frame optical NIRSpec MSA spectroscopy for a large, representative sample of ~120 galaxies before cosmic noon. Our priority 1 targets are 15-20 of the highest-redshift massive quiescent galaxies (2.5<z<5), including 2 objects at z>4. For these, we will a.) confirm redshifts and the absence of star formation to calculate robust number densities, b.) measure formation and quenching times, and c.) constrain stellar metallicity and alpha enhancement to probe star-formation physics in massive galaxies during the first billion years. Current simulations fail to reproduce the number density of the earliest quiescent galaxies: we will measure their detailed physical properties to understand what is missing from such simulations. We will target the UDS field, which contains ~1000 high-redshift galaxies benefiting from ultra-deep optical spectroscopy from VANDELS, a 1000-hour investment of VLT VIMOS time. The UDS will also benefit from JWST PRIMER imaging. Our priority 2 targets are 25-30 massive quiescent galaxies at 1<z<2.5 with VANDELS rest-frame near-UV spectra, which we will extend into the rest-optical to measure stellar metallicities, as well as to constrain residual/rejuvenated star-formation + AGN activity. Our priority 3 targets are 50-60 VANDELS star-forming galaxies at 2.5<z<6, for which we will measure rest-optical emission lines to constrain gas-phase metallicities, SFRs and dust attenuation levels. These will be combined with far-UV stellar metallicities and Lyman alpha fluxes from VANDELS to constrain alpha enhancement and the physics of Lyman alpha escape. We will finally observe ~10 of the highest-redshift (z>8) PRIMER galaxy candidates.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This proposal aims to obtain extremely deep rest-frame optical continuum spectroscopy of high-redshift galaxies via MOS observations with the NIRSpec MSA. We will target the Ultra-Deep Survey (UDS) field, for which HST CANDELS and soon JWST PRIMER imaging will be available. This field also benefits from a significant quantity of optical spectroscopy for high-redshift galaxies from the ESO VANDELS survey, a 1000-hour investment of VLT time.

The target classes are 1.) the highest-redshift massive quiescent galaxies (2.5 < z < 5), 2.) massive quiescent galaxies in the cosmic noon epoch (1 < z <2.5) with optical spectroscopy from the VANDELS survey, 3.) high-redshift star-forming galaxies (2.5 < z < 6), again with optical spectra from VANDELS, and 4.) the highest-redshift (z > 8) galaxy candidates to be selected from JWST PRIMER NIRCam imaging.

We propose to observe 4 NIRSpec pointings. Observations will be taken at R=1000 with the G140M, G235M and G395M gratings. Target acquisition will be via MSATA. We will use 5-shutter slitlets to make sure sufficient quality of sky subtraction is available for each object to precisely measure the continuum emission. We will also observe at 2 dither positions on the MSA to mitigate detector effects. This results in about 25 objects being observed per MSA pointing, per grating (~120 unique objects in total). Based on our ETC calculations, we will observe for 4 hours with G140M, 6 hours with G235M and 3 hours with G395M.