---
id: 3547
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS  NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Hideki Umehata"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "8.19/0"
program_title: "Revealing the early phase of the co-evolution of galaxies and super-massive black holes at a z=3 proto-cluster core"
type: "GO"
---
# 3547 - Revealing the early phase of the co-evolution of galaxies and super-massive black holes at a z=3 proto-cluster core
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3547
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label             | Observing Template              | Science Target      |
| :---------------- | :------------------------------ | :------------------ |
| ADF22.A1          | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) ADF22.A1        |
| NIRCAM F115/F356  | NIRCam Imaging                  | (2) ADF22.A1-NIRCAM |
| NIRCAM F200/F444  | NIRCam Imaging                  | (2) ADF22.A1-NIRCAM |

## ABSTRACT

A tight correlation between a mass of a central super massive black hole (SMBH) and a galaxy spheroid mass has been discovered in the local universe. Understanding the origin of this "co-evolution" of galaxies and SMBHs has been a major goal of modern astronomy. While the co-evolution has been usually investigated using optically selected quasars for years, such an approach only must be insufficient. Since the key phase in which galaxies and SMBHs assemble masses very rapidly is predicted to be highly obscured by dust, it is of fundamental importance to directly measure the mass of (proto-)bulge and galaxies together with the BH mass in the heavily obscured phase in the early universe.
In this program, we propose NIRCam imaging and MIRI MRS spectroscopy of ADF22.A1, a z=3.09 bright DSFG located at a z=3.1 proto-cluster core. ADF22.A1 is a HyLIRG-class DSFG and hosts a heavily obscured, but intrinsically bright, AGN at the core, which offers an invaluable target to understand the early phase of the co-evolution. Recent intensive ALMA surveys uncover that ADF22.A1 has a proto-bulge and extended, rotating disk, also showing signatures of spiral arms and clumps. The four-band NIRCam imaging (F115W, F200W, F356W, and F444W) will measure stellar morphologies, tying the ALMA-indentified substructures with the stellar regime, and stellar masses for both galaxy and bulge. The MIRI MRS enables the BH mass measurements utilizing Pa-alpha line as a tracer. We will unveil the early stage of the co-evolution, which has been hidden for years, finally.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

ADF22.A1, a =3.09 bright DSFG harboring an X-ray luminous AGN, is the target. ADF22.A1 is a HyLIRG-class DSFGs and hosts a heavily obscured, but intrinsically bright AGN at the core. We propose NIRCam (4-bands; F115W, F200W, F356W, F444W) imaging and MIRI MRS spectroscopy of ADF22.A1.

NIRCam Imaging:
Four broad-band NIRCam filters are proposed in two combinations - F115W (short) and F356W (long) and F200W (short) and F444W (long). The standard 3-point dither pattern is adopted, which is sufficient to reconstruct the PSF for the chosen bands. On the FULL array, the MEDIUM8 readout mode is used for all exposures, with 6 groups and 1 integration per exposure, yielding 1900s per pointing. According to the JWST ETC, we will achieve a 5sigma point source limit of 27.8, 28.3, 28.5, and 28.1 (AB mag) for F115W, F200W, F356W, and F444W, respectively.

MIRI MRS:
We will use MIRI medium-resolution spectrometer (MRS) to observe ADF22.A1. Our primal target is the Pa-alpha line, which redshifts to 7.68um for a z=3.09 galaxy. This wavelength is well covered by the SHORT sub-band in channel-2. Therefore we request only this sub-band. Pa-beta line also falls in the SHORT sub-band of channel-1 and thus simultaneously observed.
We do not need to perform dedicated target acquisition observation. Channel-2, which will be used for the Pa-alpha observation, is adopted as the primary channel. The fiducial 4-point dither pattern for an extended source is adopted to achieve optimal PSF reconstruction, and we will do simultaneous observations using the F560W filter to give the absolute astrometry to the MRS cube as recommended. We will adopt slow readout mode for higher SNR for spectroscopy of faint sources.
Exposures are composed of two sets of 40 groups, 2 integration per dither point. This results in the total exposure time of 15000 sec.