---
id: 3548
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/LRS  NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Johanna Vos"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "8.89/0"
program_title: "Exometeorology: Weather on an Isolated World Beyond Our Own"
type: "GO"
---
# 3548 - Exometeorology: Weather on an Isolated World Beyond Our Own
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3548
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label             | Observing Template             | Science Target                |
| :---------------- | :----------------------------- | :---------------------------- |
| NIRSPEC TSO       | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (2) SIMP-J013656.5+093347.3 |
| MIRI TSO          | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) SIMP-J013656.5+093347.3 |
| MIRI Background   | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) SIMP-J013656.5+093347.3 |

---

## ABSTRACT

With the launch of JWST, we are entering the era of direct exoplanet characterization studies. Based on the handful of directly-imaged exoplanets studied to date, it is clear that interpretation of these discoveries hinges on a thorough understanding of their condensate clouds. Spectroscopic time-series monitoring provides a means to investigate these clouds in detail. We propose to obtain phase-resolved coverage of the highly variable, isolated exoplanet analog SIMP J0136+09 by observing one full rotation each with the NIRSPec and MIRI instruments. By obtaining complete longitudinal information of an extrasolar atmosphere at 1-14 µm we will perform the most detailed phase-resolved atmospheric investigation of any extrasolar atmosphere to date. The proposed program will enable us to 1) Pinpoint the mechanisms driving variability 2) Perform spatially-resolved atmospheric retrievals on an imaged extrasolar atmosphere for the first time. The results of this program will provide crucial insight on the importance of time-varying atmospheric processes for brown dwarfs, isolated planetary-mass objects and bona fide directly-imaged exoplanets.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose for MIRI/LRS and NIRSpec Bright Object Time-Series observations of our target SIMPJ 0135+09. We will cover a full rotation period with each instrument, resulting in full phase coverage of the atmosphere from 0.6 – 14 µm. Light curve shapes of brown dwarfs often change dramatically over a couple of days so it is essential that our observations are taken in a non-interruptible sequence. This will ensure that we capture SIMPJ 0136+09 in the same atmospheric state across the full wavelength range.

**MIRI Monitoring:**
We will observe SIMPJ 0136+09 using the MIRI time-series template to ensure high stability and precision across all wavelengths. We will use the MIRI LRS slitless mode with the P750L disperser to prevent slit losses, disabling dithers to ensure photometric stability, and utilizing the FAST readout mode to provide many samples up the ramp. Following the MIRI Time Series Observations Recommendations and the latest recommendations from the Transiting Exoplanet Community Early Release Science Program, we add an additional 60 minutes of settling time before the observation to mitigate the effects of the ramp systematic. For brown dwarfs, the JWST ETC has built-in low-temperature, log(g)=5 PHOENIX models. We adopt the Teff = 1100 PHOENIX model for our ETC calculations. Our ETC calculations predict an SNR 100 with 5-minute cadence, and SNR 260 with 30-minute cadence. We show the 30-minute cadence sensitivity in Figure 3. We will be sensitive to the predicted variability across the full MIRI spectral range. Variability observations have never been carried out at wavelengths > 5 µm so these observations will be transformative for our understanding of clouds in extrasolar atmospheres.

**NIRSpec Monitoring:**
We propose JWST/NIRSpec monitoring of SIMPJ 0136+09 to cover a full rotation. Following the recommended strategies for time series observations with NIRSpec, we will use the Bright Object Time Series (BOTS) mode with the Prism filter and S1600A1 slit. We use the SUB2048 subarray, the NRS readout pattern and 3 groups per integration to achieve 12 s cadence. Following recommendations from the JWST User Documentation's Step-by-Step ETC Guide for NIRSpec BOTS Observations and consultation with the JWST helpdesk, we add on a 30 minute settling time at the beginning of our observation. According to the JWST/ETC, we will reach SNR 775 with 5-minute cadence and SNR 1870 with 30-minute cadence). The observations will provide spectroscopic variability observations at unprecedented sensitivity, providing the most detailed information to date for studying the time-varying atmospheric properties of an isolated giant planet analog.