---
id: 3557
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/LRS  NIRISS/SOSS  NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Nikku Madhusudhan"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "67.35/0"
program_title: "A JWST Search for Missing Methane"
type: "GO"
---
# 3557 - A JWST Search for Missing Methane
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3557
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template                       | Science Target                       | Target Group |
| :---- | :--------------------------------------- | :----------------------------------- | :----------- |
| 1     | NIRISS Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy | (1) TOI-1231                         | TOI-1231 b   |
| 2     | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series        | (1) TOI-1231                         | TOI-1231 b   |
| 3     | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy         | (1) TOI-1231                         | TOI-1231 b   |
| 14    | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy         | (1) TOI-1231                         | TOI-1231 b   |
| 4     | NIRISS Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy | (3) LTT-3780                         | LTT 3780 c   |
| 5     | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series        | (3) LTT-3780                         | LTT 3780 c   |
| 6     | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy         | (3) LTT-3780                         | LTT 3780 c   |
| 13    | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy         | (3) LTT-3780                         | LTT 3780 c   |
| 7     | NIRISS Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy | (5) TOI-1468                         | TOI-1468 c   |
| 8     | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series        | (5) TOI-1468                         | TOI-1468 c   |
| 9     | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy         | (5) TOI-1468                         | TOI-1468 c   |
| 16    | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy         | (5) TOI-1468                         | TOI-1468 c   |
| 10    | NIRISS Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy | (7) TOI-270                          | TOI-270 d    |
| 12    | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy         | (7) TOI-270                          | TOI-270 d    |
| 15    | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy         | (8) TOI-270-BKG                      | TOI-270 d    |

---

## ABSTRACT

The “Missing Methane problem” is one of the central mysteries in the exploration of exoplanetary atmospheres. Whereas methane (CH4) is ubiquitous in the atmospheres of solar system giant planets, it has yet to be robustly detected in temperate exoplanetary atmospheres. Molecules such as CH4 and ammonia (NH3) are expected to be prominent carriers of carbon and nitrogen in H2-rich atmospheres at temperatures below ~800 K. The presence or absence of CH4 in such atmospheres has major implications for our understanding of planet formation, atmospheric processes, and searches for chemical signatures in habitable-zone exoplanets. We propose a comprehensive JWST program to address this long-standing problem with high-precision transmission spectra over the 1-10 micron range for a homogeneous sample of four temperate mini-Neptunes orbiting bright M dwarfs. These observations will be obtained using a combination of NIRISS, NIRSpec G395H and MIRI LRS instruments. The observations will provide unprecedented constraints on the atmospheric compositions of these targets, robustly resolving the Missing Methane problem and providing important insights into disequilibrium processes in the atmospheres. These observations will also allow us to a) constrain theories of planet formation and evolution of sub-Neptune planets by determining their atmospheric metallicities and elemental ratios, b) build the first mass-metallicity (M-Z) relation in the sub-Neptune regime and c) test the extension of solar system M-Z relation in C/H to lower masses. Our program will pave the way for future searches of hydrocarbons and signatures of chemical disequilibrium in habitable-zone exoplanets.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will observe a homogeneous sample of four exoplanets: TOI-1231 b, TOI-732 c, TOI-1468 c and TOI-270 d. These targets are selected to have very similar equilibrium temperatures (330-400 K), very similar bright M dwarf host stars and masses and radii that permit H2-rich atmospheres, as well as spanning the Neptune/mini-Neptune regime.

Each planet will be observed using transit spectroscopy and a transmission spectrum produced for each spanning the wavelength range 0.6-10 microns. To do this each planet will be observed in primary transit using NIRISS SOSS, NIRSpec G395H and MIRI LRS, once for each instrument. A total of 12 transit observations will thus be performed. Each observation will last twice the transit duration and phase constraints have been added to allow for a 1 hour scheduling window.

Additional exposures will be taken for target acqisition and also an additional F2777W exposure taken for each NIRISS SOSS observation.

**Update:** For one of the targets, TOI-270 d, the NIRISS and NIRSpec observations are no longer observed as part of this program due to duplication with other programs.

---