---
id: 3558
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging  MIRI/LRS  NIRSpec/FS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Aaron Meisner"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "7.66/0"
program_title: "The First Spectrum of the Coldest Halo Brown Dwarf"
type: "GO"
---
# 3558 - The First Spectrum of the Coldest Halo Brown Dwarf
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3558
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template                | Science Target     |
| :---- | :-------------------------------- | :----------------- |
| 2     | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy   | (1) W1534-1043     |
| 4     | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy  | (1) W1534-1043     |
| 6     | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy  | (1) W1534-1043     |
| 5     | MIRI Imaging                      | (1) W1534-1043     |

---

## ABSTRACT

For nearly a decade, JWST GTO target WISE 0855 (Teff ~ 250 K, d ~ 2 pc) has stood as the coldest known brown dwarf. Perplexingly, intense searches for WISE 0855 analogs have turned up no objects as cold or cooler to date. One emerging possibility is that the very coolest brown dwarfs like giant (exo)planets have diverse properties, and thus our past searches have been misguided. Because brown dwarfs cool over billions of years as they age, the coldest substellar objects may preferentially be the oldest, but until recently no halo brown dwarfs had been conclusively identified. WISEA 1534-1043 (a.k.a. The Accident) is a newly discovered brown dwarf with halo kinematics and observational properties completely unlike those of any other known (sub)stellar object, though strongly suggestive of low metallicity. At just 16 pc distant and with Teff <~ 400-550 K, WISEA 1534-1043 may be the first member of a vast, previously overlooked halo brown dwarf population. Our JWST NIRSpec/MIRI spectroscopy and MIRI photometry of WISEA 1534-1043 will (1) determine this unique object's bolometric luminosity, temperature, and metallicity (2) complete WISEA 1534-1043's kinematic profile (3) reveal chemistry at low metallicity via retrievals (4) serve as a touchstone data set steering future development of low-metallicity, low-temperature brown dwarf and exoplanet atmospheric/evolutionary models and (5) guide future searches for the coolest brown dwarfs. Incredibly faint at short wavelengths (J = 24.5 Vega), high-quality spectroscopy of WISEA 1534-1043 is infeasible with any facility other than JWST.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

In this JWST proposal we have targeted the coldest known halo brown dwarf candidate in order to obtain a full spectral energy distribution, calculate bolometric luminosity, complete a kinematic analysis with radial velocity, and investigate the complex chemistry resolved in JWST data. We propose to acquire NIRSpec G395H spectra along with low resolution MIRI and NIRSpec LRS spectra. The G395H grating covers the peak of the flux for our target where measurable discrepancies are expected compared to typical brown dwarfs. The NIRSpec and MIRI LRS data along with a few MIRI photometric data points will allow us to calculate a bolometric luminosity anchoring all observations with this fundamental observed parameter.