---
id: 3559
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Farhad Yusef-Zadeh"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "23.37/0"
program_title: "NIRCam monitoring of the inner accretion flow of Sgr A* synchronous with EHT imaging of the black hole shadow"
type: "GO"
---
# 3559 - NIRCam monitoring of the inner accretion flow of Sgr A* synchronous with EHT imaging of the black hole shadow
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3559
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label          | Observing Template   | Science Target |
| :------------- | :------------------- | :------------- |
| NIRCam imaging | NIRCam Time Series   | (1) SGRA       |
| NIRCam imaging | NIRCam Time Series   | (1) SGRA       |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose a second epoch of simultaneous JWST + EHT observations of Sgr A* during a campaign in April-May 2024, led by the EHT. The analysis of variable flaring events provides the local and global characteristics and physics of Sgr A*'s accretion flow close to the event horizon, which will have a significant impact on our understanding of massive black holes in the nuclei of other galaxies. JWST Cycle 1 observations in coordination with the EHT are scheduled in April 2023. The proposed second-epoch observations are needed to model and correct the sub-mm variability in the next EHT imaging observations of Sgr A* and to futher constrain long-term statistical variability trends in the near-IR, which will be accomplished by combining three previous epochs of HST observations of Sgr A* in 2004, 2007, and 2014 at similar NIR wavelengths. Long-term projects such as this need regular investments or else they simply can never be done. This long-term project is low-risk, and high reward, as we propose the first study of Sgr A*'s year-to-year variability using long duration, high sensitivity, simultaneous observations at two NIR wavelengths. We will be able to detect the generic low-level NIR flickering that comes from the underlying inner accretion flow, as opposed to rarer, sporadic more powerful events. This will allow us to probe for the first time the physical models of the accretion flow, which predict different mean fluxes and statistical fluctuations. We will compare the two epochs of JWST observations to older HST data and investigate the variability of Sgr A* on decadal timescales, providing critical input parameters for simulations of the black hole accretion flow.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will use the NIRCam in imaging mode to obtain observations centered on the SMBH Sgr A* at the Galactic Center (GC). Simultaneous imaging will be obtained in the short- and long-wavelength channels, using Module B only, and the SUB640 subarray readout. Subarray readouts are used to reduce data volume and decrease the exposure time per group, because of the bright sources located near Sgr A*. The F210M and F480M filters will be used to obtain photometry of Sgr A* at two different wavelengths simultaneously, thus allowing for measurments of the spectral index of Sgr A* as well. Using the RAPID readout mode, with the SUB640 subarray, we will obtain 9 groups per integration and 20 integrations per exposure, in conjunction with a 4-point dither pattern. Each block of 4 dithered exposures will cover ~1 hour of observing. We will obtain 6 such exposure blocks in a back-to-back fashion, which will provide ~8 hours of coverage on the target. Three such 8 hour visits will be obtained, all of which will be coordinated with times at which other telescopes in the EHT campaign (such as ALMA) are observing Sgr A*.