---
id: 3571
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Farhad Yusef-Zadeh"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "17.64/0"
program_title: "MIRI observations of YSO candidates for Unambiguous Evidence of Star formation in the 10pc Molecular Ring Orbiting the Galactic Center Black Hole"
type: "GO"
---
# 3571 - MIRI observations of YSO candidates for Unambiguous Evidence of Star formation in the 10pc Molecular Ring Orbiting the Galactic Center Black Hole
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3571
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
### 1. List of Labels, Corresponding Observing Template, and Science Targets

| Observation | Label                     | Observing Template | Science Target        |
| :---------- | :------------------------ | :----------------- | :-------------------- |
| 1           | Gal Cen                   | MIRI Imaging       | (1) GAL-CENTER        |
| 2           | Gal Cen Copy of Tile-1    | MIRI Imaging       | (2) GAL-CENTER-Tile-1 |
| 7           | Gal Cen Copy of Tile-1    | MIRI Imaging       | (2) GAL-CENTER-Tile-1 |
| 17          | Gal Cen Copy of Tile-1    | MIRI Imaging       | (2) GAL-CENTER-Tile-1 |
| 3           | Gal Cen Copy of Tile-2    | MIRI Imaging       | (3) GAL-CENTER-Tile-2 |
| 4           | Gal Cen Copy of Tile-3    | MIRI Imaging       | (4) GAL-CENTER-Tile-3 |
| 5           | Gal Cen Copy of Tile-4    | MIRI Imaging       | (5) GAL-CENTER-Tile-4 |
| 6           | Gal Cen Copy of Tile-6    | MIRI Imaging       | (6) GAL-CENTER-Tile-6 |
| 16          | Gal Cen Copy of Tile-6    | MIRI Imaging       | (6) GAL-CENTER-Tile-6 |

## ABSTRACT

There is mounting evidence for signatures of star formation, such as methanol and water masers and bipolar outflows, at the center of the Galaxy. While these signatures are widely accepted for star forming regions in the Galactic disk, the extreme environment, particularly irradiation by OB stars and the disturbed nature of the circumnuclear molecular ring (CNR), suggest that in principle the signatures could be produced by shocks and external irradiation. The CNR shows a population of very dense clumps that appear to be marginally gravitationally unstable. What is needed is an unambiguous tracer, ideally the direct detection of Young Stellar Objects (YSOs). This demands the unique capabilities of JWST. The increased sensitivity, resolution, and wavelength coverage of JWST will untangle the process of star formation in the crowded and complex region of the nucleus of our Galaxy. The observational program proposed here will search for IR-excess sources from bipolar molecular outflows and uncover IR-excess sources in the molecular ring and search for YSOs in a site where numerous tracers of outflows are detected. This is the first time that there is sufficient sensitivity for a complete census of low- and high-mass ongoing star formation in the circumnuclear molecular ring, thus providing an accurate estimate of the star formation rate near the supermassive black hole. These observations will also be the seed for a more extensive mid-IR imaging survey of the entire Galactic Center region in later observing cycles, which will have tremendous potential for a wide variety of archival research programs in this remarkable and unique region of the Galaxy.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will use the MIRI imager to observe the central few arc minutes of the Galactic Center (GC) in several different wavelength bands. Photometry of the sources will allow us to build spectral energy distributions (SED's) of the stellar cluster surrounding the supermassive black hole Sgr A*. The SED's and color-color analysis will be used to identify Young Stellar Objects (YSO's). We will construct a 3.5' x 3.5' imaging mosaic in each of 5 filter bands, ranging from 5 to 15 microns, centered on the GC. Dither patterns will be used in each mosaic tile to mitigate the effects of bad pixels and recover full sampling of the PSF at the shorter wavelengths.