---
id: 3589
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Lee Patrick  Co-PI: Tomer Shenar"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "12.0/0"
program_title: "How big do stars get? A NIRCam view of cool supergiants in, NGC 4449, a key low-metallicity environment"
type: "GO"
---
# 3589 - How big do stars get? A NIRCam view of cool supergiants in, NGC 4449, a key low-metallicity environment
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3589
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label    | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :------- | :----------------- | :------------- |
| NGC4449  | NIRCam Imaging     | (2) NGC-4449   |

## ABSTRACT

The currently detected black-hole, black-hole (DBH) merger population have brought to focus the lack of understanding of how massive stars end their lives in the >30 solar mass regime, both as single stars and within binary systems. In this respect, the empirically observed limit on the luminosity of cool supergiant stars (CSGs), the Humphreys-Davidson (HD) limit, is of primary importance, particularly given the tension between the stellar evolutionary model predictions and observations at sub-solar metallicities. This brings about the question: how large and luminous do massive-star progenitors of black holes become at low metallicity? The most well studied examples of sub-metallicity massive star populations (in the Large and Small Magellanic clouds) have proved insufficient to rule out brief violations of the HD limit, which is the result of low number statistics. To this end, we propose to observe the complete CSG population of the LMC-like starburst galaxy NGC 4449 with NIRCam. These observations will allow the identification of the CSG population and the reconstruction of the optical-to-infrared spectral energy distributions to accurately determine their luminosities. As well as having a high legacy value, these observations will allow us to determine, to a much greater level of statistical accuracy whether nature permits violations of the HD limit, which directly impacts both the interpretation of the observed core-collapse supernova population and the feasibility of DBH formation channels.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We request NIRCam photometry covering the full spatial extent of the galaxy NGC4449. These observations are specifically tailored to obtain accurate photometry for the brightest stars in this galaxy. To avoid any saturation of the brightest targets we use the SUB640 subarray and a 2x5 mosaic pattern. Point spread function photometry will be extracted using the most recent version of the DOLPHOT NIRCam module, which has been demonstrated with JWST Early Release Science observations. With the galaxy-wide photometic catalogues, we will construct galaxy-wide IR CMDs diagram to characterise the stellar population of NGC4449.