---
id: 3596
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRISS/SOSS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Agnes Kospal"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "7.96/0"
program_title: "Time-dependent dust heating and reverberation in the disk of the highly accreting classical T Tauri star DR Tau"
type: "GO"
---
# 3596 - Time-dependent dust heating and reverberation in the disk of the highly accreting classical T Tauri star DR Tau
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3596
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template                     | Science Target |
| :---- | :------------------------------------- | :------------- |
| 1     | NIRISS Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy | (1) V-DR-TAU   |
| 2     | NIRISS Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy | (1) V-DR-TAU   |

## ABSTRACT

The innermost part of circumstellar disks around young stars, where terrestrial planets form, is a vigorous dynamical environment. The location of the inner radius of the dust disk is an important parameter which shapes the accretion process, the amplitude and timescale variability processes, and even the efficiency of planet formation. Located at a fraction of an au, measuring this radius is very challenging, even for infrared interferometers. Here, we propose a novel method, the dust reverberation technique, to measure the inner dust disk radius in the highly accreting, highly variable classical T Tauri star DR Tau. Taking advantage of the supreme cadence and precision of NIRISS for spectrophotometric time series, we will make a pioneering reverberation experiment, one of the first of this kind on a young star. We will obtain 0.8-2.8 um spectra with 7 sec cadence uninterruptedly for 2 hours. In this data stream, we will look for optical brightness fluctuations due to the variable stellar/accretion radiation, and search for their reverberation signal in the infrared domain, emitted by dust particles whose temperature changes due to the varying irradiation. We will repeat the observations a few months later, sampling a different brightness state of the star/disk system. Our experiment will enable us to measure the inner radius of the dust disk in a model-independent way. We will also determine the variations of the accretion rate, the dust temperature, and the emitting surface in the disk. Our results will help to connect the accretion process and disk changes and may establish the reverberation technique as a standard tool of protoplanetary disk studies in the future.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

In this program, we will make a dust reverberation experiment to determine the inner radius of the dust disk around the pre-main sequence star DR Tau. For this purpose, we will obtain time series of NIRISS spectra in the Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy (SOSS) mode. Our target can be used for target acquisition in the SOSSBRIGHT mode with the default F480M filter using 3 groups and 1 integration. For the spectroscopy, we will use the SUBSTRIP96 subarray and 2 groups per integration, chosen to provide the shortest possible cadence, 6.66 sec. After a half hour of detector settling, we will observe our target for 2 hours, to ensure enough time for significant variability to be used as a reverberation signal. We will use the GR700XD+CLEAR filter configuration to cover the 0.8-2.8 um wavelength range. With this setup, we will have S/N between 100 and 310 in each spectrum of DR Tau. At the end of the monitoring, we will also make a short GR700XD+F277W exposure as well to isolate the 1st order spectrum and estimate the magnitude of contamination in the 2.4-2.8 um range. We will repeat the spectrophotometric monitoring of DR Tau one more time curing Cycle 2, preferably in another visibility window in order to maximize the chances that we observe sufficiently high variability of our target and also to reveal geometrical changes in the inner disk with unprecedented precision.