---
id: 3615
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Sebastian Zieba"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "16.56/0"
program_title: "Exploring the boundary between rocky and gaseous planets with WASP-47 e"
type: "GO"
---
# 3615 - Exploring the boundary between rocky and gaseous planets with WASP-47 e
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3615
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label              | Observing Template            | Science Target |
| :----------------- | :---------------------------- | :------------- |
| WASP-47e - G395H   | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) WASP-47    |
| WASP-47e - G395H   | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) WASP-47    |

---

## ABSTRACT

Ultra-short-period (USP) planets have orbital periods shorter than a day and are therefore being blasted by radiation from their host stars. The majority of these small USP planets have bulk densities consistent with Earth-like compositions, with two notable exceptions clearly showing lower densities: 55 Cnc e and WASP-47 e. Both planets lie directly in the radius valley between super-Earths and sub-Neptunes, providing an exciting opportunity to test the boundary between rocky and gaseous planets. In addition, both planets orbit in multi-planet systems with similar architectures, possibly implying a similar formation history. Compared to 55 Cnc e, WASP-47 e is advantageous because the other planets in the system are transiting, offering an opportunity for comparative planetology. The host star is also fainter, so observing WASP-47 e doesn't push the performance of the detectors on JWST to the extreme limit that 55 Cnc does. Two secondary eclipse observations of WASP-47 e will distinguish at 4.5 sigma significance whether the planet is a bare rock and possibly part of a proposed exotic class of exoplanets without cores, or whether it holds onto a CO- and CO2-rich atmosphere, which is expected from a remnant atmosphere affected by photoevaporation.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to observe 2 secondary eclipses of the Ultra-Short-Period planet WASP-47 e with NIRSpec in the G395H/F290LP mode. We account for an additional 30 minutes of burn-in at the beginning of the observations to let the detectors settle. The observations have to coincide with the eclipse of the planet but avoid transits and eclipses of the other two transiting planets in the system. The target is too bright for direct acquisition, so we will acquire on a fainter star first and then offset to our science target. We checked for saturation using the ETC and chose a number of Groups per Integration which keeps all pixel below 50% saturation. We request two eclipse observations with a duration of 6.2 hours (= 551 integrations) per visit. We determined the number of groups per integration to be 44. This leads to a time of 40.6 seconds for one integration. With a period of 0.79 days for WASP-47 e and accounting for the visibility of the star, there are 123 eclipses to observe in Cycle 2 (July 1st, 2023 - June 30th, 2024).