---
id: 3621
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Alexander Venner  Co-PIs: Mary Limbach and Andrew Vanderburg"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "2.37/0"
program_title: "Confirming a Giant Planet around the White Dwarf GD 140"
type: "GO"
---
# 3621 - Confirming a Giant Planet around the White Dwarf GD 140
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3621
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
|---|---|---|
| | MIRI Imaging | (1) GD-140 |
| | MIRI Imaging | (1) GD-140 |

## ABSTRACT

White dwarfs represent the end state of evolution for the vast majority of stars in the galaxy. Planets are now known to be ubiquitous companions to stars, yet very little is known about their fate after their host stars after they become white dwarfs. We have discovered a candidate giant planet orbiting the nearby young white dwarf GD 140 based on evidence from astrometry and Spitzer photometry. We request 0.8 hours of MIRI imaging observations to detect and confirm this planet candidate. We will accomplish this by detecting a mid-infrared excess in GD 140's spectrum arising from planetary thermal emission. The planet is predicted to outshine the white dwarf beyond 12 micrometres, allowing us to confirm the planet with overwhelming confidence and precisely measure its temperature and mass. Additionally, we will be able to fully resolve the planet if it lies more than approximately 0.8 arcseconds (>12 AU) from the white dwarf. The confirmation of this planet would represent a significant addition to the small number of known planets around white dwarfs, and would offer immense opportunities for further study such as characterising its orbit and atmosphere.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We request time to conduct MIRI broadband imaging in the F560W, F770W, F1000W, F1280W, F1500W, F1800W and F2100W filters. We will observe for 4 mins in F560W-F1500W, 6 mins in F1800W, and 24 mins in F2100W. We have adjusted our exposure times such that we are at <70% saturation in the four bluest bands and <35% in the three reddest bands, designed as such to ensure that the planet (which will dominate the flux contribution at long wavelengths) does not saturate the detector. We will use the cycling 4-point dither pattern with to remove bad pixels and background. We will acquire on the target star. There are no scientific requirements for when the observations must take place. No parallel observations are planned.