---
id: 3629
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Allison Man  Co-PIs: Paola Andreani and Laya Ghodsi"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "4.31/0"
program_title: "Direct detection of molecular gas reservoir in the circumgalactic medium of a brightest cluster galaxy"
type: "GO"
---
# 3629 - Direct detection of molecular gas reservoir in the circumgalactic medium of a brightest cluster galaxy
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3629
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label          | Observing Template                 | Science Target                        |
| :------------- | :--------------------------------- | :------------------------------------ |
| MRS BCG tail   | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) MACS1931.8-2635-BCG-TAIL          |
| MRS Sky        | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) DEDICATED-SKY                     |

---

## ABSTRACT

We seek to conduct a pilot observation with MIRI/MRS to map the warm molecular hydrogen in the circumgalactic medium (CGM) of the brightest cluster galaxy (BCG) of MACS1931-26. The target harbours one of the largest known H2 reservoir in a cluster core revealed by ALMA. Its cold gas, as traced by CO, is spatially extended over a tail of ~30kpc beyond the BCG core. Submillimeter observations using single-dish and interferometry reveal extreme thermal and excitation conditions in the CGM gas: the dust and gas is thermally decoupled, and the CGM is unusually highly excited. A plethora of evidence points to a drastically different condition in the CGM than typical gas found in galaxies: the thermal gas states are dominated by highly energetic particles rather than FUV-photons from young stars as in galaxies. JWST/MIRI is uniquely capable of revealing a potentially massive warm H2 reservoir in the CGM. We propose a pilot observation with MIRI/MRS to map the 3D structure of the warm molecular gas in the BCG core and the extended CGM tail of MACS1931, in order to: (1) detect and map the spatial extent and temperature distribution of the warm H2 emission; (2) compare the warm H2 emission to the cold H2 emission mapped by CO. The H2 0-0 S(1) and S(5) line maps will enable us to measure the total gas mass and temperature distribution. By probing the CGM gas across a range of temperatures, we will scrutinize the impact of AGN feedback on the baryon cycle, and assess the role of shocks and turbulence in the heating and cooling of the CGM.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

**OBSERVING DESCRIPTION**
**Choice of MIRI/MRS:**
The MIRI/MRS is the unique instrument that conduct the pro- posed H2 observations. At the target redshift of z = 0.352, our driving science case is to detect the rotational H2 J = 3 1 or S(1) in short for the following reasons. The H2 S(0) line is redshifted out of the MIRI filters and not observable by JWST. The S(1) line falls in the centre of the MIRI MRS medium grating in Channel 4 (Fig. 4b). The S(1) line is preferred over higher energy transitions, as it probes lower temperatures and thus the bulk of the warm H2 mass. The S(1) line is generally the most luminous line for a range of tem- perature distributions (e.g. Appleton et al. 2017 and Fig 3), and ortho-H2 lines are more luminous than para-H2 lines (Burton et al. 1992; Appleton et al. 2017). By using the MRS medium grating, the MRS will cover the following lines of interest at the target redshift: H2 S(5) in Channel 2, PAH 11.3 micron complex in Channel 3, and H2 S(1) and PAH 17.7 micron complex in Channel 4 (see Figure 4). The medium grating will provide observations of two H2 lines: the S(1) line is important for fitting the overall normalization of the col- umn density and thus warm H2 mass distribution; and the S(5)-to-S(1) line ratio provides a measure of the temperature distribution of the gas. The spectral resolution of the medium grating ranges from R 1680 3750, corresponding to 80 180 km/s. If we conservatively assume that the H2 lines are as broad as the CO (1-0) line with FWHM 110 km/s (Fogarty et al. 2019), the medium grating will be sufficient to resolve the emission line profiles into several resolution elements to probe any velocity gradient.

**Mosaicking:**
A mosaic with the MRS is required to fully cover the extent of the CGM gas (about 30 kpc or 6 towards the NW direction from the BCG core; see Figure 4a). We request a 6-pointing mosaic (3 rows × 2 columns) with slight shifts applied to cover the BCG core and its extended tail, such that both Ch2 and Ch4 will have continguous spatial coverage over the tail. While a 3-pointing mosaic (3 rows × 1 column) is more time-efficient, the orientation of the mosaic is very restrictive (rotation angle 60 ± 10) and renders the observation unschedulable. We thus opt for the 6-pointing mosaic without any position angle restriction to optimize schedulability.

**Dedicated Sky Observation:**
Our science target is faint and extended, and fills most of the MRS IFU. Given that the most important spectral line, H2 S(1), is observable at the reddest channel of MIRI, the dominant sources of background noise are zodiacal background and telescope thermal emission. It is thus crucial to obtain a Dedicated Sky Observation with the MRS, so that in post-processing we can accurately model and subtract the background on a pixel-by-pixel basis. A location free of bright MIR sources as seen in WISE is identified for the Dedicated Sky Observation, about 1.2 away N from the science target. The Dedicated Sky Observation will have identical setup (grating, readout, exposure time) as the science target following the observatory's recommendation for faint and extended sources.

**Dithering:**
We use a 4-point dither pattern for science observations to improve spatial sampling and mitigate bad pixels for all wavelengths observed with the MRS. Based on MIRI commissioning data, the 4-point dither pattern yields better performance than 2-point patterns. For the Dedicated Sky Observation, no dither is required.

**MIRI Simulataneous Imaging:**
MIRI imaging will be obtained “for free” simultaneously with the MRS observations to improve astrometric solutions of individual MRS exposures. Given that the Dedicated Sky Observations also come with MIRI imaging, we request to restrict the Orientation Angle of the MIRI imaging to be conducted simultaneously with the Sky MRS observations, such that MIRI broadband imaging will cover the science target. We request to use the F2100W filter for the simultaneous imaging, as it covers the H2 S(1) line well away from other potential strong lines expected in the CGM/ICM. The F2100W filter has a PSF of FWHM 0.674, equivalent to 3.3kpc at the target redshift. The spatial resolution of the MIRI imaging is sufficient to