---
id: 3647
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Polychronis Patapis  Co-PI: Mathilde Malin"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "10.68/0"
program_title: "GJ504 b is really cool: A new atmospheric window into Jupiter’s evolution with JWST/MIRI"
type: "GO"
---
# 3647 - GJ504 b is really cool: A new atmospheric window into Jupiter’s evolution with JWST/MIRI
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3647
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template                | Science Target   |
|-------|-----------------------------------|------------------|
| 1     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) GJ504-B      |
| 2     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) GJ504-B      |
| 3     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) HD-129974    |

---

## ABSTRACT

The connection between the formation pathway and atmospheric evolution of the young, hot, and widely separated directly-imaged exoplanets and our Solar System gas giants like Jupiter is not well understood. GJ 504 b is the coldest planetary-mass companion (PMC) orbiting a solar-like star on a solar system scale orbit (43 AU) found to date. With an estimated temperature of ~500 K, it is the only PMC that bridges the gap between the population of directly-imaged young exoplanets (~1000K) and our own Jupiter (~130 K). We aim to unveil the mid-infrared spectrum of GJ504b with MIRI/MRS, that is expected to show many pronounced molecular features at these wavelengths, most notably ammonia. Studying the atmosphere will help us understand whether PMCs at lower temperatures still retain the signposts of their hotter counterparts, namely disequilibrium chemistry and clouds, therefore putting the first constrains on this stage of gas giant atmospheric evolution. By measuring the abundances of H2O, CO, CH4 and NH3 we will be able to calculate elemental abundance ratios of C/O and, for the first time, N/O, which in conjunction can provide insights into the formation location and possible migration of the planet. The precision we expect with our measurements of C/O and N/O will be able to distinguish within 3 sigma whether GJ504 b is enriched (like Jupiter), solar, or depleted (like a recent measurement of a cool brown dwarf WISE 1828), potentially showing that it truly is a snapshot of Jupiter in its adolescent years.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to observe the closeby exoplanet system GJ504. The planet is separated by 2.5" making it possible to place the bright (Kmag=4) star out of the MRS FOV. We additionally include a small offset of b from the centre of the FOV in order to place the bright star even further away. In order to achieve our science goals we require an observation of a reference star, offset exactly like GJ504A, in order to subtract the diffraction pattern from A at the location of b. For sampling the PSF appropriately we chose a 4-pt point source dither, while the dither offsets will also enable the measurement of the background.