---
id: 3652
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging  NIRSpec/FS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Mary Limbach  Co-PIs: Alexander Venner and Andrew Vanderburg"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "4.22/0"
program_title: "Age and Confirmation of White Dwarf Exoplanet Candidate WD 0141-675b"
type: "GO"
---
# 3652 - Age and Confirmation of White Dwarf Exoplanet Candidate WD 0141-675b
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3652
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template            | Science Target    |
| :---- | :---------------------------- | :---------------- |
| 1     | MIRI Imaging                  | (1) WD0141-675    |
| 2     | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (1) WD0141-675    |

## ABSTRACT

We request 1.7 hours MIRI and NIRSpec observations to confirm, characterize and determine the age of the white dwarf exoplanet candidate WD 0141-675b. The candidate, identified with Gaia astrometry, has a mass of 9 Jupiter masses and an orbital period of 33 days. There is no other existing observatory capable of independently confirming this exoplanet. The planet orbits only 0.17 AU from the white dwarf, close enough that it could not have survived the red giant phase of its host star at its current location without engulfment. How the planet arrived at its current location is a mystery. Given the planet-host separation and planet mass it is nearly impossible to explain with existing white dwarf exoplanet formation theories. We propose to use JWST MIRI and NIRSpec to detect IR excess from WD 0141-675b's thermal emission spectrum. A detection will measure the planet's temperature and probe its atmospheric composition, while a non-detection would refute the existence of the planet. If confirmed, WD 0141-675b would be the first white dwarf planet with a known mass and temperature, allowing for a precise determination of the exoplanet's age and therefore time of formation providing a pivotal clue to the planet's origin. Either way, JWST observations will help us understand and confirm this unique planet and the mysterious processes that shape planetary systems after the main sequence.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We request 1.4 hours of MIRI imaging observations in seven filters, from 5-24 microns, of the exoplanet candidate host WD 0141-675. We will use a cycling 4-point dither pattern for all our MIRI observations. For all MIRI filters, we adjusted our exposure times such that we are at <60% saturation. Additionally, we request 0.3 hours of NIRSpec G395M observations (3-point dither) to constrain the planet's temperature/cloud cover. There are no scientific requirements for when the observations must take place. We will acquire on the target star.