---
id: 3655
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Cristina Ramos Almeida"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "22.59/0"
program_title: "Investigating the impact of quasar-driven outflows on recent star formation"
type: "GO"
---
# 3655 - Investigating the impact of quasar-driven outflows on recent star formation
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3655
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                     | Observing Template                  | Science Target            |
| :------------------------ | :---------------------------------- | :------------------------ |
| J1509-0434-BCK            | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) J1509+0434-BCK        |
| J1509+0434                | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) J1509+0434            |
| J1100+0846-BCK            | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) J1100+0846-BCK        |
| J1100+0846                | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) J1100+0846            |
| J1356+1026-BCK            | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (5) J1356+1026-BCK        |
| J1356+1026-BCK-repeat     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (5) J1356+1026-BCK        |
| J1356+1026                | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (6) J1356+1026            |
| J1356+1026-repeat         | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (6) J1356+1026            |
| J1430-1339-BCK            | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (7) J1430+1339-BCK        |
| J1430+1339                | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (8) J1430+1339            |
| J1010+0612-BCK            | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (9) J1010+0612-BCK        |
| J1010+0612                | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (10) J1010+0612           |

---

## ABSTRACT

Active galactic nuclei (AGN) drive gas outflows that can affect the galaxies' interstellar medium (ISM) by sweeping out, heating, and/or mixing the gas needed to form new stars. Indeed, cosmological simulations require AGN feedback to regulate star formation and produce realistic numbers of massive galaxies. However, we are still far from understanding how AGN feedback couples with the host galaxies, which is what ultimately determines its efficiency. The goal of this proposal is to measure the impact of quasar-driven outflows in different locations of the host galaxies by comparing their 3D properties with the spatial distribution of PAHs, which probe recent star formation (ages<10 Myr). To do so we request MIRI/MRS observations of a sample of 5 nearby obscured quasars with well-characterized ionized and cold molecular outflows. By comparing the 3D outflow and recent star formation properties we will investigate under which circumstances quasar-driven outflows affect star formation in the host galaxies and, in particular, the importance of the coupling between the outflows and the ISM. This will be the first spatial comparison of outflows and PAH/star formation done for a sample of nearby luminous type-2 quasars.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We request MIRI/MRS observations over the full 4.9-27.9 micron range of 5 luminous obscured quasars (QSO2s) at z~0.1. We require one pointing per target, which will cover the inner ~10x10 kpc2 of the galaxies. This will allow us to study the spatial distribution of PAH features (i.e. recent star formation) and of different emission line profiles (ionized and molecular emission lines).

We chose a 4-point dither pattern for the target observations, in order to have a better sampling of the PSF, and 2-point dither pattern in the dedicated background observations. Considering the on-source integrations required to achieve the necessary signal-to-noise in the emission features of interest, we originally selected the FASTR1 readout mode. We chose one integration of 50 groups for each dither point for J1100, 2 integrations of 60 and 75 groups for J1430 and J1010, and 3 integrations of 100 groups for J1356 and J1509. The total science time of the proposal is 12.78 hours, which corresponds to a total charged time of 22.59 hours.

After accounting for the sensitivity losses in Ch4, we selected either the FASTR1 or SLOWR1 readout mode depending on the source. The total science time of the proposal is 18.83 hours, which corresponds to a total charged time of 29.85 hours.