---
id: 3659
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Francesco D'Eugenio"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "23.75/0"
program_title: "What quenched the first massive quiescent galaxy? A comprehensive analysis from stellar kinematics to gas emission lines"
type: "GO"
---
# 3659 - What quenched the first massive quiescent galaxy? A comprehensive analysis from stellar kinematics to gas emission lines
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3659
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                        | Observing Template        | Science Target |
| :--------------------------- | :------------------------ | :------------- |
| GS-9209 - G235H/F170LP - R2700 | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) GS-9209    |
| GS-9209 - G395H/F290LP - R2700 | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) GS-9209    |

---

## ABSTRACT

Most models expect that the most massive central galaxies are quenched by Active Galactic Nuclei (AGN) feedback, yet how this quenching happens is yet to be understood. This question is critical not only to our understanding of galaxy formation/evolution, but also for the physics of the baryon cycle and of AGNs themselves. The discovery of massive quiescent galaxies at high redshift poses stringent time constraints on feedback mechanisms. As the redshift frontier moves to higher redshifts, the available time interval between look-back time and quenching becomes necessarily shorter, leaving ever less room for subsequent, confounding evolution. At a redshift z = 4.658, GS-9209 is the highest-redshift, massive quiescent galaxy observed to date, hence it represents the best case study to investigate how these systems quenched in the young, gas-rich Universe. This expectation is confirmed by a recent, very high S/N NIRSpec spectrum of the galaxy, confirming its quiescence and a spectacular broad-line H— unmistakable evidence for ongoing gas accretion onto supermassive black hole (AGN activity). We propose to investigate the spatially resolved stellar and emission-line properties of GS-9209 to search for the distinctive signatures of the mechanism that has recently quenched this galaxy.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose deep NIRSpec/IFU observations of a single, high-value target at z=4.7. The target is a compact source (half-light radius 0.04 arcsec), so no target acquisition is required. Two observations are required: - a high-resolution observation (G235H/F170LP), total exposure time 14.5 h - a low-resolution observation (G395H/F290LP), total exposure time 4 h The adopted medium-size (0.5") cycling dither pattern was selected as a compromise between accurate sampling of the point spread function and the need to offset failed-open shutters from NIRSpec/MSA. No dedicated background exposures are required, because the IFU field of view contains sufficient empty regions for the background subtraction.