---
id: 3662
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Coronagraphy"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Anne-Marie Lagrange  Co-PI: Clement Perrot"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "22.93/0"
program_title: "Imaging shepherding and carving planets in debris disks"
type: "GO"
---
# 3662 - Imaging shepherding and carving planets in debris disks
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3662
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                               | Observing Template             | Science Target               |
| :---------------------------------- | :----------------------------- | :--------------------------- |
| TWA7 F1140C roll 1                  | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging     | (1) TWA7                     |
| TWA7 F1140C roll 2                  | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging     | (1) TWA7                     |
| TWA7 F1140C Background              | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging     | (2) TWA7-BACKGROUND          |
| Ref CD-23-9765 F1140C               | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging     | (3) CD-23-9765               |
| Ref CD-23-9765 F1140C background    | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging     | (4) CD-23-9765-BACKGROUND    |
| HD 181327 F1140C roll 11            | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging     | (5) HD-181327                |
| HD 181327 F1140C roll 12            | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging     | (5) HD-181327                |
| HD 181327 F1140C background         | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging     | (6) HD-181327-BACKGROUND     |
| Ref HD 183577 F1140C                | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging     | (9) HD-203010                |
| Ref HD 183577 F1140C background     | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging     | (10) HD-203010-background    |

---

## ABSTRACT

Since the discovery of the first debris disk four decades ago, dozens of such disks have been resoved at optical and near IR, or at mm wavelengths with ALMA. These disks often show structures (sharp edges, rings, gaps, warps) that are often attributed to planets. Young debris disks offer then exquisite opportunities for studies of planetary systems formation and early evolution. Yet, shepherding or gap carving planets are still to be detected to definitely assess the origin of the observed features.

Available high contrast imaging data suggest that, if they exist, the planets responsible for these structures have (very) low masses, less than typ 1-5 MJup, probably down to 0.1 MJup. Only JWST/MIRI can detect such low mass planets, in well selected disks. Once detected, these planets will offer unique opportunities to study disk-planets interactions, early dynamical evolution of planetary systems, and to reveal the properties of pristine, non irradiated, sub-Jupiters.

Applying specific selection criteria to maximize the chances to find these shepherding/carving planets in regions where our solar system giants are located, we identified two pole-on, young, close-by, structured disks. TWA7 shows three ring-like structures peaking between 25 and 100 au, and HD181327 shows one ring-like structure at 80 au. We show that a 0.15 MJup planet can carve the gap between the first two rings. JWST/MIRI observations should allow detecting this planet and will allow detecting planet(s) with masses greater than 0.15-0.3 MJup carving the inner cavity and/or shaping its inner edge. It will allow detecting similar planets with masses greater than 0.3 MJup in the case of HD181327.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Many debris disks exhibit structures (warps, rings, gaps) often attributed to planets.
In this proposal, we aim at imaging, for the first time, shepherding planets, or chains of multiple, light planets responsible for disks inner cavities and gaps, as well as sharp edges, within two carefully selected young targets, TWA 7 and HD 181327.

To achieve this goal, we will use the JWST/MIRI Four-Quadrant Phase Mask Coronagraph, with F1140C.
JWST/MIRI Four-Quadrant Phase Mask Coronagraph is the only instrument allowing to image sub-Jupiter mass planets, with masses down to less than 0.2 MJup. Such detection limits are indeed necessary to image the cavities and gap forming planets.