---
id: 3663
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Thomas Bohn"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "21.94/0"
program_title: "Big Impact in Little Galaxies? A JWST Investigation of AGN Outflows in Dwarf Galaxies"
type: "GO"
---
# 3663 - Big Impact in Little Galaxies? A JWST Investigation of AGN Outflows in Dwarf Galaxies
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3663
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
1.  **List of the Labels, the corresponding Observing Template and the Science Targets:**

    **OBSERVATIONS**

    | Label             | Observing Template         | Science Target          |
    | :---------------- | :------------------------- | :---------------------- |
    | J0842_NIRSpec     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy   | (1) J0842               |
    | J0842_Bkg         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy   | (2) J0842_background    |
    | J0906_NIRSpec     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy   | (3) J0906               |
    | J0906_Bkg         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy   | (4) J0906_background    |
    | J0954_NIRSpec     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy   | (5) J0954               |
    | J0954_Bkg         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy   | (6) J0954_background    |
    | J1009_NIRSpec     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy   | (7) J1009               |
    | J1009_Bkg         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy   | (8) J1009_background    |

## ABSTRACT

    Feedback in dwarf galaxies has been widely regarded as being dominated by stellar processes. However, recent studies are showing a growing number of candidate AGN in dwarf galaxies. Follow-up, deep observations are not only confirming AGN but are also revealing evidence of AGN-driven outflows with sufficient energy to expel gas from their host galaxy. These findings are starting to question whether stellar processes are the dominant source of feedback that regulates star formation in dwarf galaxies. Unfortunately, samples of dwarf galaxies with AGN outflows are extremely rare due to the stringent requirements on resolution and sensitivity.

    Due to the difficulty of achieving these requirements with current ground-based facilities, we propose NIRSpec IFU observations of a sample of dwarf galaxies to capitalize on the unparalleled resolution and sensitivity of JWST. This program will observe a sample of four dwarf galaxies that show strong evidence of AGN outflows. Our goals include tracing the structure of the outflows by constructing line intensity and kinematic maps using a variety of coronal lines. We will also assess the impact on the host by using a number of tracers of the stellar population and star formation, such as PAH emission, CN absorption, and CO bands. Our program will provide more stringent constraints on AGN feedback models in dwarf galaxy simulations, which can help alleviate some of the outstanding issues, such as the 'diversity' and 'cusp-core' problems. This pioneering program will provide the first infrared IFU observations of AGN outflows in dwarf galaxies, and may fundamentally alter our view of the role of AGN feedback in the low mass regime.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

    The aim of this proposal is to investigate AGN-driven outflows in a sample of four dwarf galaxies and assess the impact of AGN feedback in the low mass regime. The predominate method of analyzing AGN outflows is through coronal lines (CLs). While optical CLs are accessible from the ground, they are two orders of magnitude fainter than infrared CLs. Observations of near-infrared CLs are also faced with their own set of challenges. In order to achieve the required resolution, AO-assistance is mandatory but the scarcity of suitable guide stars has severely limited our observations of AGN outflows in dwarf galaxies.

    To fulfill the required resolution and sensitivity to trace these outflows, we propose to obtain NIRSpec IFU observations. By using the G140H (F100LP), G235H, and G395H gratings, we will achieve full wavelength coverage from 0.97 - 5.27 microns. This will allow us to observe a wealth of CLs with a broad range of ionization potentials. Using these CLs, we will create flux and kinematic maps, from which we will trace the inner and outer structures of the outflow. We will also utilize PAH emission, CN absorption, and CO bands as a means of measuring the stellar populations and star formation. We will use these emission and absorption features as a means to assess the outflow feedback (positive or negative) by comparing their intensity maps to the structure and orientation of the outflows. Lastly, other diagnostic lines, such as recombination lines, [Fe II], and molecular hydrogen, will allow us to create extinction maps and examine any molecular outflows.

    To achieve a SNR of >5 in CL emission located more than 0.5" from the center, we request exposure times of 3,000 - 3,600 seconds with each grating. We will use the NRSIRS2RAPID readout with 50 - 60 groups and 1 integration. We will adopt the 4-point dither pattern that is optimized for extended sources and will provide us with better sampling of the PSF. We also request a single LeakCal observation for each grating to help facilitate the correction for any leakage from the MSA shutters. Based on the pointing accuracy of JWST, we will not be requiring any target acquisition.