---
id: 3671
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging  MIRI/MRS  NIRCam/Imaging  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Ivan Lopez  Co-PI: Patrick Ogle"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "16.73/0.19"
program_title: "Radio Jet Feedback in the Nearby Spiral Galaxy M58"
type: "GO"
---
# 3671 - Radio Jet Feedback in the Nearby Spiral Galaxy M58
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3671
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
### 1. List of Labels, Corresponding Observing Template, and Science Targets

| Folder Observation  | Label           | Observing Template                 | Science Target     |
| :------------------ | :-------------- | :--------------------------------- | :----------------- |
| **M58 IFU and MRS** | M58 IFU         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy           | (1) M-58           |
|                     | M58 MRS         | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) M-58-MRS       |
|                     | M58 MRS Off     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) M-58-MRS-OFF   |
| **M58 Imaging**     | M58 MIRI IM     | MIRI Imaging                       | (1) M-58           |
|                     | M58 NIRCAM IM   | NIRCam Imaging                     | (1) M-58           |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose MIRI MRS and imaging, NIRSpec IFU, and NIRCam imaging observations of radio jet feedback on the kpc-scale molecular disk of nearby spiral galaxy M58. This is the most luminous nearby example where a low-power radio jet is having an enormous impact on the physical state of molecular gas in the central regions of a spiral galaxy, heating a large fraction of it to 200-3000K. We will spatially and kinematically resolve the jet-ISM interactions at a scale of 10 pc and determine what fraction of the molecular and ionized gas is heated in place and what fraction is entrained in an outflow. This will also yield the molecular and ionized gas outflow rates, which we will compare to the AGN accretion rate and nuclear star formation rates to determine how significant these processes are in regulating both. While confined to the central disk and bulge, AGN jet feedback can potentially have an impact on the recycling of gas and star formation in the larger disk of the galaxy. Crucially, an up-close look at the jet feedback process will greatly improve our understanding of both how efficiently it operates and the potential impact of more powerful jets in radio galaxies and quasars on the global gas content and star formation at high redshift, where it will not be possible to examine the details jet feedback process at such high spatial resolution.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We use NIRSpec IFU with G235H/F170LP and G395H/F290LP; and MIRI MRS for spectroscopic mapping the wavelength range 1.7-25 microns, to cover the full series of accessible H2 pure rotational and rovibrational lines and PAH features. A large array of ionized gas lines will be used to characterize ionized outflows driven by the radio jet. Leakcal observations are needed to remove MSA print-through since the MSA FOV lands on the bright disk of the host galaxy. We take concurrent MIRI imaging to help with astrometric registration. MRS off observations are required to be taken in an noninterruptible sequence with the MRS observations to enable accurate background subtraction. NIRCam and MIRI imaging of the H2, PAH, and adjacent continuum bands will give a broader context for AGN feedback across the galaxy bulge and bar and higher resolution on the nucleus to help interpret the IFU observations.