---
id: 3696
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Kishalay De"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "18.45/0"
program_title: "A population of hidden tidal disruptions in the local universe: Revealing the energetics of the most luminous infrared transients with JWST"
type: "GO"
---
# 3696 - A population of hidden tidal disruptions in the local universe: Revealing the energetics of the most luminous infrared transients with JWST
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3696
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                   | Observing Template              | Science Target                |
| :---------------------- | :------------------------------ | :---------------------------- |
| WTP14adbjsh-MRS         | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) NGC-7392                  |
| WTP14adbjsh-MRS-BKG     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (5) NGC7392-BACKGROUND        |
| WTP18aajkmk-MRS         | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) MCG-01-07-028             |
| WTP18aajkmk-MRS-BKG     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (6) MCG-01-07-028-BACKGROUND  |
| WTP18aampwj-MRS         | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) 2MASX-J01464244+3230295   |
| WTP18aampwj-MRS-BKG     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (7) KUG0143-BACKGROUND        |
| WTP17aamzew-MRS         | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) NGC-2981                  |
| WTP17aamzew-MRS-BKG     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (8) NGC2981-BACKGROUND        |

---

## ABSTRACT

The physics of supermassive black holes (SMBHs) underpins all areas of astrophysics. It has long been suggested that SMBHs at the lowest masses ($\lesssim 10^6$\,M$_\odot$) grow substantially by the repeated tidal disruption of nearby stars; yet observational tests remain challenging. While such tidal disruption events (TDEs) are now routinely discovered in optical/X-ray surveys, there is growing evidence that they reveal only a fraction of the population where the SMBH line of sight is unobscured. Combined with most of the accretion luminosity emerging in the opaque extreme ultraviolet bands, both the bolometric radiated energy (tracing the accreted mass) and volumetric rates of TDEs remain highly uncertain. The mid-infrared (MIR) bands, acting as a bolometer for TDE radiation via reprocessed emission from surrounding dust, offer a unique opportunity to alleviate both these problems. By mining public NEOWISE images using state-of-the-art image subtraction methods, we have identified a sample of previously unknown luminous (> 10^{43} erg/s) MIR TDE candidates in nearby galaxies (< 200 Mpc). We propose MIRI/MRS spectroscopy of four sources showing diverse signs supporting their TDE origin in multi-wavelength follow-up. These first-of-their kind MIR observations of TDEs, possible only with JWST, will reveal i) the composition, temperature and geometry of dust heated in TDEs to measure the flare bolometric luminosity and ii) unmistakable evidence for an awakened SMBH via high ionization emission lines. Together, this proposal will provide a stepping stone to the characterization of TDEs in the MIR, and assess their contribution in forming the lightest SMBHs in the universe.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The proposal will carry our MRS IFU spectroscopy of four tidal disruption events (TDEs) identified via their bright mid-infrared echoes in WISE data. We will use all the channels and grating settings to cover the full wavelength range from 5 - 28 microns. The observations will be carried out using the standard 4-point dither pattern for point sources. Since the background stellar light will fill the MRS field of view, we will obtain a single background sky exposure matching the groups and integrations of the science observations, immediately after the target observations. The background regions have been selected to be sufficiently far away such that the stellar light of the extended galaxies does not contaminate the spectra. We do not require a Target Acquisition observation as our targets are point sources, and the default JWST pointing accuracy suffices with the MRS field of view. We will obtain simultaneous imaging to improve the astrometric calibration in data processing. The spectra for the TDE flares will be extracted from the data cube at the nuclear position, which is expected to be resolved from the background stellar light in the IFU data.