---
id: 3702
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Marta Sewilo"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "11.2/0"
program_title: "Ice observations toward massive protostars in the low-metallicity Large Magellanic Cloud"
type: "GO"
---
# 3702 - Ice observations toward massive protostars in the low-metallicity Large Magellanic Cloud
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3702
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                     | Observing Template               | Science Target           |
| :------------------------ | :------------------------------- | :----------------------- |
| ST6 SKY-NIRSpec           | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy         | (2) ST6-SKY-NIRSPEC      |
| ST6 NIRSpec               | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy         | (1) ST6                  |
| ST6 MIRI                  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) ST6                  |
| ST6 SKY-MIRI              | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) ST6-SKY-MIRI         |
| N83-2A SKY-NIRSpec        | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy         | (5) N83-2A-SKY-NIRSPEC   |
| N83-2A NIRSpec            | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy         | (4) N83-2A               |
| N83-2A MIRI               | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) N83-2A               |
| N83-2A SKY-MIRI           | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (6) N83-2A-SKY-MIRI      |

## ABSTRACT

One of the most important goals of astrochemistry is to understand the origin and evolution of complex organic molecules (COMs). The Large Magellanic Cloud (LMC) is the nearest laboratory for detailed studies on the formation and survival of COMs under metal poor conditions, typical for the early universe. Only very recently have gas-phase COMs been detected in the LMC with ALMA. JWST will join ALMA in revolutionizing the field of complex organic chemistry in low-metallicity environments by enabling studies of solid state COMs on spatial scales matching the gas phase observations.

We propose the NIRSpec IFU and MIRI MRS observations to map the infrared ice content in two massive protostellar envelopes in the LMC. JWST will provide spectra without contamination from the wider environment and with the high spectral resolution and sensitivity allowing for a reliable identification and detailed analysis of ice band profiles, revealing information on ice morphologies, thermal histories, and mixing environments. We will reliably measure the CH3OH ice column densities and search for larger COM ices for the first time at subsolar metallicity. JWST will reveal the level of molecular complexity in interstellar ices in the LMC. We will compare the abundances of the solid and gas state COMs to investigate formation routes that regulate the chemical complexity in star-forming regions. JWST will allow us to make a step forward toward the understanding the impact of metallicity on complex organic chemistry.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to use NIRSpec IFU (G395H/F290LP, 2.87-5.27 microns) and MIRI MRS (4.9-28.3 microns) to observe two protostellar envelopes in the low-metallicity LMC: N83-2A and ST6. The targets are extended, but can be observed in a single pointing.

Each NIRSpec IFU and MIRI MRS observation is associated with a dedicated background observation which is to be executed in a non-interruptible sequence.

For NIRSpec observations, we use the VERIFY_ONLY option with the F110W filter for target acquisition. We select the 4-point dither pattern and include the "leakcal" exposure. We base the NIRSpec IFU observing time estimates on the Spitzer/IRAC photometry. Methanol and COMs around 3.6 microns have strengths of 3% of the continuum, therefore we request a S/N of 100 at 3.6 microns to detect these ice features. The total science time for all NIRSpec IFU observations is 0.98h.

For MIRI MRS observations, we do not request the target acquisition. A 4-point extended source dithering pattern for the MRS is chosen. Our program includes simultaneous MIRI imaging along with the MRS observations. We will use different filters for each of the 3 simultaneous imaging observations (corresponding to the 3 MRS grating settings): F560W, F770W, and F1000W. COMs have strengths of ~1% of the continuum at 8 microns, therefore we request a S/N of 300 to detect them. We simulate the spectra for major simple ice species and for methanol (the simplest COM) to make sure our observations will provide detections with high confidence. The total science time for all MIRI observations is 2.86h.