---
id: 3703
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/LRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Jorge Zavala"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "24.33/0"
program_title: "Breaking the z=10 barrier with MIRI: Redshift confirmation and detection of rest-frame optical emission lines"
type: "GO"
---
# 3703 - Breaking the z=10 barrier with MIRI: Redshift confirmation and detection of rest-frame optical emission lines
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3703
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label        | Observing Template              | Science Target      |
| :----------- | :------------------------------ | :------------------ |
| CEERS2-5429  | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) CEERS2-5429     |
| CEERS2-5429  | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) CEERS2-5429     |
| CEERS2-5429  | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) CEERS2-5429     |
| GLASS-z12    | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) GLASS-Z12       |
| GLASS-z12    | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) GLASS-Z12       |
| GLASS-z12    | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) GLASS-Z12       |

## ABSTRACT

The combination of both the better-than-expected science performance of JWST and the discovery of an unexpected population of bright galaxies at high redshifts might have unlocked what we thought impossible: the detection of rest-frame optical emission lines at z>10. Such emission lines are critical to confirm these extreme redshifts and to diagnose the physical conditions in these exciting objects. Here we propose to prove this by obtaining spectroscopic observations with MIRI, the only astronomical instrument capable of detecting these lines at such high redshifts (at z > 9.5, strong rest-optical lines redshift out of NIRSpec). With 9hrs on-source of MIRI/Low Resolution Spectroscopy observations per target, we will detect Hbeta/[OIII] and Halpha in two robust, bright z>10 galaxy candidates recently identified via JWST/NIRCam observations with at least 5sigma significance (or even up to ~15sigma if they are extreme line emitters as other recently confirmed galaxies). This short proposal will also test the efficiency of MIRI as a redshift machine in comparison with NIRCam, NIRSpec, and ALMA, while providing a unique opportunity to further characterize the physical properties of these early galaxies including SFRs, metallicities, dust obscuration, and other parameters.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This short proposal consists of MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy (LRS) on two bright, z>10 galaxy candidates discovered with JWST/NIRCam. MIRI/LRS provides the required sensitivity, wavelength coverage, and spectral resolution to detect bright rest-frame optical emission lines (Halpha and Hbeta/[OIII]) with SNRs>5. To achieve the required 9hrs on-source (per target), we split the time into three independent observations. For each observation, we choose 484 groups per integration, 4 integration per exposure, and 1 exposure per specification with 2 dither positions "along slit nod” in the APT (summing up ~3hrs). Repeating this strategy three times adds up a total exposure of 9hrs. Target acquisition (TA) observations were also included to prevent slit losses from off-nominal source placements. Finally, we note that the PA for the target GLASS-z12 was restricted within PA 42 to 65 deg (+180 values are also acceptable) to make sure the ALMA [OIII]88m tentative detection recently reported falls within the MIRI slit.