---
id: 3704
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging  NIRCam/Imaging  NIRSpec/FS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Eleonora Troja"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "24.94/0"
program_title: "Identifying the fingerprints of heavy r-process elements with the James Webb Telescope"
type: "GO, Long Term ToO, Non-Disruptive ToO"
---
# 3704 - Identifying the fingerprints of heavy r-process elements with the James Webb Telescope
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3704
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
## 1. List of Labels, Observing Template, and Science Targets

| Folder Observation   | Label      | Observing Template              | Science Target |
| :------------------- | :--------- | :------------------------------ | :------------- |
| BRIGHTKN - EPOCH1    |            |                                 |                |
| 1                    | NIRSpec    | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (1) KN         |
| 2                    | MIRI SED   | MIRI Imaging                    | (1) KN         |
| NORMALKN - EPOCH2    |            |                                 |                |
| 3                    | NIRCam SED | NIRCam Imaging                  | (1) KN         |
| 4                    | MIRI SED   | MIRI Imaging                    | (1) KN         |
| FAINTKN - EPOCH3     |            |                                 |                |
| 5                    | NIRCam SED | NIRCam Imaging                  | (1) KN         |
| 6                    | MIRI SED   | MIRI Imaging                    | (1) KN         |
| TEMPLATE             |            |                                 |                |
| 7                    | NIRCam SED | NIRCam Imaging                  | (1) KN         |
| 8                    | MIRI SED   | MIRI Imaging                    | (1) KN         |

---

## ABSTRACT

Approximately half of the elements heavier than iron are formed by rapid neutron capture (r-process) reactions, yet the astrophysical site(s) of these processes remain one of the most enduring mystery of modern astrophysics. Compact binary mergers may be a major, if not dominant, source of r-process elements in the universe. However, it remains an open question whether they could reproduce the abundance pattern observed in the solar neighborhood, including the heaviest elements such as actinides and transuranic nuclei.
We propose non-disruptive ToO observations of a nearby (z<0.1) kilonova to tackle this question and constrain the formation of heavy r-process elements in the ejecta of a compact binary merger. Heavy elements affect the bolometric luminosity of a kilonova and shape its temporal evolution on timescales of weeks-months after the merger. During this phase, the bulk of the emission shifts to infrared wavelengths, where only JWST can follow its evolution. A luminous and long-lived infrared emission is the hallmark signature of robust r-process production and represents incontrovertible evidence that these mergers enriched our universe of heavy metals.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We proposed a flexible observing strategy to best match the evolution of the kilonova from bright to faint. We envision 3 epochs at approximately 30, 50 and 80 days, and a fourth epoch at much later times (>120 d) to serve as reference image.
Epoch1 combines NIRSpec spectroscopy (PRISM/CLEAR) with MIRI imaging (F560W,F770W, F1000W).
This setup is optimal for bright and red kilonovae.
Epoch2 combines NIRCam multicolor imaging (3 SW +3 LW filters) with MIRI imaging (F560W,F770W). This setup is designed to offer rich color information for kilonovae that are too faint for spectroscopy.
Epoch3 uses NIRCam wider filters (F150W2/F322W2) and a single MIRI deep exposure (F770W) to characterize the faintest stages of the kilonova.
Given that the source position, brightness and distance scale is unknown a priori, our combination of spectroscopy and broadband imaging can be easily tweaked to best match the kilonova properties at the moment of trigger.
All our observations will be non-disruptive.