---
id: 3712
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/LRS  NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Patricio Cubillos"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "16.58/0"
program_title: "Warm Jupiters Dis-equilibrium and Thermo-chemistry in Transmission Spectroscopy"
type: "GO"
---
# 3712 - Warm Jupiters Dis-equilibrium and Thermo-chemistry in Transmission Spectroscopy
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3712
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                      | Observing Template              | Science Target         |
| :------------------------- | :------------------------------ | :--------------------- |
| NIRSpec/G395H WASP-69b     | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) WASP-69            |
| MIRI/LRS WASP-69b          | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy  | (1) WASP-69            |
| (3)                        | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy  | (3) WASP-69-background |

## ABSTRACT

Warm Jupiters (Jupiter-sized planets with equilibrium temperatures of ~1000 K) are uniquely favorable for atmospheric characterization since (1) they have strong spectroscopic features and (2) their compositions are highly sensitive to temperature variations and subjected to disequilibrium processes. We propose to observe two transits of the warm Jupiter WASP-69b with NIRSpec/G395H and MIRI/LRS (2.8--12.0 um) to make an exhaustive inventory of chemical species. High-resolution ground-based transit observations of this planet have already detected the presence of H2O, CH4, CO, NH3, and C2H2, albeit without quantitative estimations of their abundances. These species and others, like the recently detected SO2, have strong identifiable spectral features in the proposed observing spectral window. Their detectability will depend on their relative abundances, which in turn are determined by the interplay between thermochemical, quenching, and photochemical processes.
Thus, by measuring the concentration of multiple atmospheric species with JWST, we will be able to disentangle the impact of the different chemical processes at play. Particularly, we will be able to quantify imporant but pooly known parameter of our chemical models, like the eddy-diffution coefficient Kzz.
Ultimately, by combining the WASP-69b physical constraints with that of other similar warm Jupiters observed during cycle 1 (e.g., WASP-80b and WASP-107b), we will start to better understand how these chemical processes shape the atmospheres of exoplanets in general.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The observations consist of two transit time-series of WASP-69b with NIRSpec/G395H and MIRI/LRS, to characterize it composition which will shed light on the different chemical processes that shape it's observable properties. The total exposure time per event is 6.21 h. The host star is a K-dwarf with a Ks magnitude of 7.459.

NIRSpec observation use the Bright Object Time Series mode (BOTS), S1600A1 aperture, 1.6"x1.6" fixed-slit aperture. G395H+F290LP grating/filter pair, SUB2048 subarray, and NRSRAPID readout patter. 5 groups per integration keep the detector below 80% of saturation. This requires 4115 integrations. For the WATA target acquisition, we use the nearby 5500~K, 16.8 G-magnitude star Gaia DR3 6910752844854895360 using the CLEAR filter and SUB32 subarray

MIRI obsservations use the slitless Low Resolution Spectroscopy mode (LRS), SLITLESSPRISM subarray, FASTR1 readout pattern, and P750L disperser, 15 groups per integration to remain at the 80% of saturation, and 8785 integrations. Target aquisition is on the target using the F1000W filter.