---
id: 3716
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Michael Brown"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "19.25/0"
program_title: "The Saturnian satellites as a laboratory for CO2 in the outer solar system"
type: "GO"
---
# 3716 - The Saturnian satellites as a laboratory for CO2 in the outer solar system
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3716
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label              | Observing Template        | Science Target   |
| :----------------- | :------------------------ | :--------------- |
| MIMAS (leading)    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (1) MIMAS        |
| MIMAS (trailing)   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (1) MIMAS        |
| tethys (leading)   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (2) TETHYS       |
| TETHYS (trailing)  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (2) TETHYS       |
| DIONE (leading)    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (3) DIONE        |
| DIONE (trailing)   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (3) DIONE        |
| RHEA (leading)     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (4) RHEA         |
| RHEA (trailing)    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (4) RHEA         |
| HYPERION           | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (5) HYPERION     |
| IAPETUS (leading)  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (6) IAPETUS      |
| IAPETUS (trailing) | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (6) IAPETUS      |
| IAPETUS(trailing)  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (6) IAPETUS      |
| PHOEBE             | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (7) PHOEBE       |
| ALBIORIX           | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (8) ALBIORIX     |
| SIONARQ            | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (9) SIONARQ      |

## ABSTRACT

One of the clearest unifying themes of nearly all Cycle 1 JWST near IR spectra of small bodies from Jupiter outward is the ubiquitous presence of CO2. While CO2 seems to be everywhere, its presence is fundamentally a mystery on almost every object. It is found where it is too hot, it is subliming where it is too cold, and it is mixed and trapped in unknown ways. Though we know little, understanding this poorly studied but incredibly common ice is critical to our understanding of volatiles, clathrates, irradiation, organics, and more throughout the outer solar system. Determining the fundamental parameters that control the presence and state of CO2 through the disparate environments sampled by the Cycle 1 observations is difficult, as it is nearly impossible to separate out the effects of temperature, body size and activity, radiation environment, and formation location. The Saturnian satellite system, including both regular and irregular satellites, however, provides an ideal laboratory for the study of CO2 in the solar system. These objects allow us to study a group of objects with identical insolation, but with a range of diameters (~30 km - 1527 km), environments (in the electron sheet, in the magnetosphere, beyond the magnetosphere), ice exposure (from modest to complete), organic abundance (from insubstantial to substantial) and formation locations (solar vs. planetary disk). Understanding of the distribution and state of CO2 on these satellites will provide the critical parameter space exploration that should allow us to understand the variables controlling CO2 on surfaces throughout the outer solar system.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to obtain NIRSpec IFU G235H and G395M spectra of the leading and trailing hemisphere of the large icy moons of Saturn, as well as single phases of Hyperion and Phoebe and PRISM mode observations of the small irregular satellites Albiorix and Sionarq. The observations will give high S/N measurement of the CO2 lines at 2.7 microns and 4.26 microns which will allow us to measure the position, depth, and shape of the CO2 lines as a probe of the sources and states of CO2 on these objects. Nearly all targets have been observed at low spectral resolution and poorer S/N by VIMS on board the Cassini, so the S/N requirements for each moon are set by known line strengths. All of the observations which target leading and trailing hemispheres of these bodies are constrained to occur within +/-20 degrees of elongation of the satellite with the exception of Iapetus, which is constainted to occur within +/- 10 degrees owing to the extreme hemispheric constrast on this satellite. We use 4 position dither mode for accurate background subtraction in this region of space where scattered light can be present, and we do all observations in the NRSIRS2RAPID mode for best noise performance.