---
id: 3726
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "MIRI/LRS  NIRSpec/FS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: James DerKacy  Co-PIs: Melissa Shahbandeh, Peter Hoeflich, and Eddie Baron"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "2.23/0"
program_title: "Examining the Heart of Type Ia Supernova 2021aefx with Ultra-Late Time Spectra"
type: "GO"
---
# 3726 - Examining the Heart of Type Ia Supernova 2021aefx with Ultra-Late Time Spectra
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3726
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                    | Observing Template                 | Science Target |
| :----------------------- | :--------------------------------- | :------------- |
| SN2021aefx_MIR_Visit1    | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy   | (1) SN2021AEFX |
| SN2021aefx_NIR_Visit1    | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy   | (1) SN2021AEFX |

---

## ABSTRACT

Type Ia supernovae (SNe Ia) are the explosive, thermonuclear deaths of white dwarf stars in multi-star systems. Despite decades of intensive study, the true nature of their progenitors and the physical mechanism by which they explode are still unknown. SNe Ia provide crucial insights into other areas of astronomy, including: understanding sources of systematic errors in the use of SNe Ia as cosmological probes, the final phases of stellar evolution, and the origin and distribution of elements formed in nuclear statistical equilibrium. NIR and MIR ultra-late time spectra with NIRSpec and MIRI are a new probe, enabled by the sensitivity of JWST to address these longstanding questions. We request 19.8 hrs of JWST time to obtain 3 NIR+MIR spectra of SN 2021aefx between 750-1150 days after B-band max light. These observations will be the first ever ultra-late time SNe Ia spectra in the NIR and MIR. These data will: (1) reveal the ions responsible for flux redistribution to the IR in late-time SNe Ia, enabling full use of accurate bolometric light curves; (2) measure the location, composition, and mass of radioactive electron capture elements like 57Co and 55Fe; (3) determine the origin, strength, and evolution of the magnetic field in the SN; (4) probe macroscopic mixing between the electron capture and nuclear statistical equilibrium regions; and (5) and monitor for potential late-onset H/He interaction signatures. This data will be truly groundbreaking and push SN physics and observations into previously unexplored areas. Significant progress will be made in our understanding of the heavy elements in the Universe and SNe Ia as distance indicators.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose obtaining three ultra-late time NIR+MIR spectra of SN 2021aefx with NIRSpec and MIRI/LRS near +750, +1000, and +1150 days after B-band maximum light, totaling 19.76 hours of charged time spread over Cycles 2 and 3. NIRSpec observations will be obtained in fixed-slit configuration with the PRISM/CLEAR filter, with target acquisition images taken in the F140X filter. MIRI observations with the Low Resolution Spectrograph will use P750L grating, and use the F1000W filter for target acquisition. Observations fall near the edges of the JWST visibility windows for SN 2021aefx but can be classically scheduled within +/- 15 days of the requested epoch to allow for scheduling flexibility.