---
id: 3730
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Hannah Diamond-Lowe  Co-PI: Joao Mendonca"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "115.11/0"
program_title: "The Hot Rocks Survey: Testing 9 Irradiated Terrestrial Exoplanets for Atmospheres"
type: "GO"
---
# 3730 - The Hot Rocks Survey: Testing 9 Irradiated Terrestrial Exoplanets for Atmospheres
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3730
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :------------------------------ | :----------------- | :----------------- |
| GJ-3473_1 | MIRI Imaging | (1) GJ-3473 |
| GJ-3473_2 | MIRI Imaging | (1) GJ-3473 |
| GJ-3473_3 | MIRI Imaging | (1) GJ-3473 |
| GJ-3473_3 | MIRI Imaging | (1) GJ-3473 |
| GJ-3473_4 | MIRI Imaging | (1) GJ-3473 |
| GJ-357_1 | MIRI Imaging | (2) GJ-357 |
| GJ-357_offset_dither_1 | MIRI Imaging | (10) GJ-357_offset |
| GJ-357_1 | MIRI Imaging | (2) GJ-357 |
| GJ-357_offset_dither_1 | MIRI Imaging | (10) GJ-357_offset |
| HD-260655_1 | MIRI Imaging | (3) HD-260655 |
| HD-260655_offset_dither_1 | MIRI Imaging | (11) HD-260655_offset |
| HD-260655_2 | MIRI Imaging | (3) HD-260655 |
| HD-260655_offset_dither_2 | MIRI Imaging | (11) HD-260655_offset |
| L-98-59_1 | MIRI Imaging | (4) L-98-59 |
| L-98-59_offset_dither_1 | MIRI Imaging | (12) L-98-59_offset |
| LHS-1140_1 | MIRI Imaging | (5) LHS-1140 |
| LHS-1140_2 | MIRI Imaging | (5) LHS-1140 |
| LHS-1140_3 | MIRI Imaging | (5) LHS-1140 |
| LHS-1478_1 | MIRI Imaging | (6) LHS-1478 |
| LHS-1478_2 | MIRI Imaging | (6) LHS-1478 |
| LTT-3780_1 | MIRI Imaging | (7) LTT-3780 |
| LTT-3780_2 | MIRI Imaging | (7) LTT-3780 |
| TOI-1468_1 | MIRI Imaging | (8) TOI-1468 |
| TOI-1468_2 | MIRI Imaging | (8) TOI-1468 |
| TOI-1468_3 | MIRI Imaging | (8) TOI-1468 |
| L-231-32_1 | MIRI Imaging | (9) L-231-32 |
| L-231-32_2 | MIRI Imaging | (9) L-231-32 |
| L-231-32_3 | MIRI Imaging | (9) L-231-32 |
| L-231-32_4 | MIRI Imaging | (9) L-231-32 |

---

## ABSTRACT

Five years into the TESS mission and with extensive radial velocity follow-up work from the ground, we now know of dozens of true terrestrial exoplanets---worlds with well-measured radii and masses that imply Earth-like bulk compositions. The sub-set of terrestrial exoplanets amenable for atmospheric investigation all orbit nearby, small, cool stars called M dwarfs. But while M dwarfs are favorable hosts for detecting small planets, their prolonged phases of high-energy activity may irreparably destroy the rocky world atmospheres we want to investigate. We propose to conduct a survey across a sample of 9 irradiated terrestrial exoplanets orbiting nearby early- to mid-M dwarfs to test if they have atmospheres, or are bare rocks. We will use the unique infrared photometric capability of JWST/MIRI in imaging mode to observe our targets as they pass behind their host stars in a secondary eclipse. This method will allow us to efficiently determine which, if any, of the worlds in our sample hint at the presence of atmospheres. Conducting this survey early in the lifetime of JWST will enable us to chart a course to the most promising of our rocky world neighbors to investigate further, or else send us back to the drawing board to invest our time in harder-to-reach cooler targets that are more likely to retain atmospheres. The implications of this work will touch small planet formation and evolution theories, atmospheric models of rocky worlds in the presence of M dwarfs, and the long-term search for biosignatures. We are requesting 80 hours of science time (115 hours charged time) to carry out our survey.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to conduct an experiment across a sample of nine irradiated terrestrial exoplanet orbiting nearby early- to mid-M dwarfs to test if they are bare rocks. All nine planets in the sample have measured radii and masses such that they are deemed terrestrial in nature, and all orbit nearby early- to mid-M dwarfs. All M dwarfs in the sample are considered inactive with slow rotation periods and low activity indicators. With these observations we are looking for the most extreme bare rock cases with low albedos (i.e., barren basalt surfaces as on the surface of Venus). Any presence of an atmosphere or a more exotic surface will present itself as a case for further follow-up study.

We will observe each planet in secondary eclipse using the infrared photometric capability of JWST/MIRI Imaging and the F1500W filter. We do not dither so as to maintain the target position on the same pixels throughout the time-series observatin. In some cases we will have to stack multiple eclipses to build up enough signal to differentiate the extreme bare rock case from the possibility of an atmospheres.

We use combinations of subarrays and ngroups/integration such that we can have at least 20 groups per integration, achieving a 65% of the full well depth. This puts 6 out of the nine targets on the sub 256 subarray. For the 3 brightest targets we have to move the sub128 or sub64 subarrays. Becuase we are concernted about measuring the background on these smallests subarrays, we additionally add short, dithered, offset observations at the end of the science TSO. These offset background observations are linked to the primary science observations.

The number of integrations per exposure is set by the duration of the secondary eclispe, plus baseline and additional time charges. We observe baseline on either side of the eclipse event equal to the eclipse duration in order to measure the eclipse depth and account for systematics. We add an extra 30 minutes to the start of the observations to account for detector settling. To account for the uncertainty in when the observations will begin, we charge an extra hour to each observation in order to keep the phase constraints to one hour, while ensuring that we will capture data before and after the eclipse event.

We use phase constraints to specify when to start observing each secondary eclispe, and BETWEEN constraints to avoid instances where a secondary eclipse is contaminated by the transit or eclipse of a sibling planet in the system.