---
id: 3731
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Andres Jordan"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "14.05/0"
program_title: "Problem Planets: Understanding the Formation of Giant Planets around Low Mass Stars"
type: "GO"
---
# 3731 - Problem Planets: Understanding the Formation of Giant Planets around Low Mass Stars
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3731
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template          | Science Target |
| :---- | :-------------------------- | :------------- |
| 2     | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) TOI-3235   |
|       | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (3) TOI-5205   |

## ABSTRACT

Planetary formation models predict that giant planets should not form around stars with masses less than 0.5 M_Sun. This is due to two fundamental factors: (1) slow accretion due to long orbital timescales, and (2) low protoplanetary disk masses, limiting the available planetary building material. Nature has proven this prediction wrong. The TESS mission has recently enabled the discovery of the first transiting giants around low mass stars. We propose to obtain NIRSpec/PRISM transmission spectra for the only two well-characterized giant exoplanets that transit M dwarfs with masses less than 0.5 M_Sun: TOI-3235b and TOI-5205b. We will characterize their atmospheric enrichment and composition with precisions in [Fe/H] and C/O ratios better than ~0.22 dex and ~0.13, respectively, observing one transit per target. We will use these measurements to constrain the formation pathways for these planets. A modest investment of JWST time will provide the data we need to move forward in elucidating how these planets bypassed the hurdles to their formation.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will observe two primary transits occuring on two M dwarfs that host giant planets with masses M_p > 100 M_earth (TOI-3235 and TOI-5205). The objective is to measure their transmission spectra. The two observations will be done with NIRPSpec/PRISM with the SUB512 (TOI-5205) and SUB512S (TOI-3235) subarrays. Target Aquision has been requested, with the same target for one of our objects and a nearby target for the other one. Using the JWST ETC we find that we can use 4 groups for TOI-3235 and 3 groups for TOI-5205. The integration durations including overheads as obtained from the APT are 0.925 s (TOI-5205) and 0.74 s (TOI-3235). To calculate the time to request on this exposure we use the dwell equation. The transit duration times for our targets are T14 = 1.3992 hr (TOI-5205) and T14 = 1.4796 hr (TOI-3235), resulting in total integration times of 5.1492 hr and 5.2296 hr, respectively. Dividing this by the total time per integration for each target gives a grand total of 20,040 (TOI-5205) and 25,441 (TOI-3235) integrations for the exposures. The total request of our program as calculated with APT including smart accounting is 14.05 hours (7.85 hours of science time)