---
id: 3760
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Anicia Arredondo"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "8.97/0"
program_title: "Investigating the cause of the 3 µm absorption feature on asteroids"
type: "GO"
---
# 3760 - Investigating the cause of the 3 µm absorption feature on asteroids
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3760
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                      | Observing Template              | Science Target             |
| :------------------------- | :------------------------------ | :------------------------- |
| Polana NIR                 | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy        | (1) POLANA NIRSpec         |
| Polana MIR                 | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (5) POLANA MIRI            |
| Polana MIR BACKGROUND      | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) POLANA-BACKGROUND      |
| Henrietta NIR              | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy        | (2) HENRIETTA NIRSpec      |
| Henrietta MIR              | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (6) HENRIETTA MIRI         |
| Henrietta MIR              | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (6) HENRIETTA MIRI         |
| Henrietta MIR BACKGROUND   | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) HENRIETTA-BACKGROUND   |
| Henrietta MIR BACKGROUND   | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) HENRIETTA-BACKGROUND   |

## ABSTRACT

Correlating the abundance of hydration on asteroids with their location in the asteroid belt can constrain conditions and subsequent evolution of the early solar system, with additional implications for how water was delivered to Earth. Hypotheses related to the distribution of hydration in the solar system can be tested by observing compositionally similar asteroids in different regions of the asteroid belt. A widely used method for determining hydration on asteroids is through the detection of an absorption band near 3 micron caused by the O-H fundamental stretching mode. The band center and shape of the 3 micron feature has implications for the type and abundance of asteroidal hydration. There is no way to distinguish the cause of the 3 micron feature (H2O, aqueously altered minerals, or a combination of both) without spectra at complementary wavelengths. The MIR spectral region offers an opportunity to disentangle the effects of H2O and aqueously altered minerals on asteroid surfaces. Molecular H2O and aqueously altered minerals have distinct spectral features across the MIR bandpass. The goal of this program is to use MIRI MRS and NIRSpec IFU to distinguish between water ice, aqueously altered minerals, or a combination of both as the compositional component(s) responsible for the 3 micron absorption. We will observe two asteroids that are representatives of two major groupings of asteroids defined by their 3 micron band shapes: (142) Polana and (225) Henrietta. We will compare the spectra from both instruments from laboratory spectra of relevant minerals to constrain the compositions of both asteroids and determine the level of aqueous alteration on both.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to observe asteroids (142) Polana and (225) Henrietta using both NIRSpec IFU and MIRI MRS. We will detect and, if present, measure the band center and strength of the 3 micron feature, 6 micron feature, and features related to aqueously altered minerals located at 6.3, 6.5, 7.1, 9.0, 9.5, 12.0, 16.5. 20.6, and 22.5 micron. The JWST MTVT shows two possible observing windows for Henrietta and one for Polana. We request that the observation be made during the second observing window for Henrietta (2024-APR-04), as the object will be brighter and SNR will be higher.

We will use the NIRSpec Integral Field Unit (IFU) instrument to observe Polana and Henrietta to identify the presence and shape of the 3 micron feature. We require a wavelength range of 2.2-4.0 micron to sufficiently characterize band shape. We will use the medium spectral resolution configuration with disperser-filter combinations G235M/F170LP (1.66-3.07 micron) and G395M/F290LP (2.87-5.10 micron). The total wavelength range of 1.66-5.10 micron is more than enough to establish the baseline continuum needed for accurate measurement of the 3 micron band. Based on previous 3 micron measurements, we require SNR > 10 to effectively characterize shape, strength, and band center. The ETC calculated exposure times for both filters are 350 seconds. We will use the FULL subarray and the NRSIRS2RAPID readout pattern. Each observation also includes a nod off scene with the aperture centered on the source.

We will use the MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy (MRS) instrument to observe both asteroids to identify the presence and strength of spectral features corresponding to molecular H2O and aqueously altered minerals. We will use all four wavelength channels to cover the wavelengths of expected spectral features. Based on previous detections of the 6 micron band, we require a SNR > 100 for all channels. The ETC calculated exposure times are 410, 133, 1098, 432, 144, and 1154 seconds for SHORTA, SHORTB, SHORTC, LONGA, LONGB, LONGC, respectively. These exposure times allow for every wavelength to have at least SNR of 100 while ensuring that the detector does not saturate. We will use the FULL subarray and the FASTR1 readout pattern. Each observation also includes a nod off scene with the aperture centered on the source.