---
id: 3762
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/LRS  NIRSpec/FS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Jerry Xuan"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "3.2/0"
program_title: "Stringent Tests of Atmospheric and Evolutionary Models with a Benchmark T Dwarf Companion"
type: "GO"
---
# 3762 - Stringent Tests of Atmospheric and Evolutionary Models with a Benchmark T Dwarf Companion
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3762
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template           | Science Target           |
| :---- | :--------------------------- | :----------------------- |
|       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy     | (3) HD-42581B-NIRSPEC    |
|       | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) HD-42581B            |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose to collect NIRSpec medium-resolution (R~2700, 1-5 micron) and MIRI low-resolution spectroscopy (R~100, 5-14 micron) for Gl 229 B, one of the closest T dwarf companions with a precise dynamical mass. Previous studies on Gl 229 B have found strong tensions between observations and model predictions, specifically for its atmospheric composition and bolometric luminosity. Our proposed program will measure six different elemental abundances to provide a comprehensive picture of the formation history of Gl 229 B. This will allow us to uncover any deficiencies in the chemical and atmospheric models. In addition, we will measure the vertical mixing coefficient, a highly uncertain parameter, to unprecedented precision, which has important implications for cloud formation and 3D global circulation. The combined 1-14 micron spectra will provide tight constraints on the bolometric luminosity, effective temperature, and radius of Gl 229 B, which will be examined in the context of its dynamical mass and evolutionary models. Combined with knowledge of its atmospheric composition gained from NIRSpec medium-resolution spectroscopy, we can begin to understand what may be missing in the models that have trouble explaining the low luminosity of T dwarfs. By testing these models with exquisite data for Gl 229 B, our proposal will also inform observations of directly imaged exoplanet atmospheres.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to collect NIRSpec fixed slit medium-resolution spectrum with G140H/F100LP, G235H/F170LP, and G395H/F290LP, as well as MIRI Slit low-resolution spectrum for the T dwarf companion Gl 229 B. The S200A1 slit is selected for NIRSpec.

We request position angle ranges that avoid aligning the NIRSpec/MIRI slit with bright diffraction spikes from the host star. One example PA range is provided in Special Requirements. Other PA ranges may be used given the symmetry of the diffraction pattern.

All observations including target acquisition were simulated with the ETC (notebook 135635).