---
id: 3768
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Morten Andersen  Co-PI: Jonathan Charles Tan"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "7.2/0"
program_title: "A global view of a massive cluster in formation with JWST"
type: "GO"
---
# 3768 - A global view of a massive cluster in formation with JWST
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3768
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
|-------|--------------------|----------------|
| 11    | NIRCam Imaging     | (3) G286       |

---

## ABSTRACT

Understanding the formation of massive star clusters is a crucial topic of current astrophysics, since most stars and planetary systems are born in such systems. We propose to observe the massive, forming star cluster G286.21+0.17, which is feasible to map in its entirety with JWST-NIRCam in a modest amount of observing time. With its unique sensitivity, spatial resolution and wavelength coverage, including water band filters that trace the effective temperature of low mass objects, we will be able to accurately characterise the individual young stellar objects (YSOs) and discriminate between background objects and cluster members down to a mass limit of 20 Jupiter masses. Accretion and outflow activity will be assessed from narrowband filters. Access to 3.5 and 4.8 microns allows us to determine the fraction of objects with a circumstellar disk and compare this with the same ratio for low-mass regions to determine the effects of environment on the disks and hence the consequences for planet formation. The observation will also build upon archival, multi-epoch HST/WFC3-IR imaging that now spans a 10-year baseline to make unique astrometric measurements of the kinematics of young stellar objects (YSOs) in the region. A new JWST measurement will allow determination of global infall or expansion of the cluster population, measure motions of sub-groups, and individual higher velocity members. A NIR variability analysis will also be extended to cover this time baseline, including of very low-mass objects, some of which are known to be outbursting. In this way, an unique global view of massive star cluster formation will be unveiled.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This is a simple NIRCam program to image a 2*1 mosaic of a massive star forming molecular clump in order to characterise the stellar and brown dwarf content. Three filters will be used in each of the SW and LW arms for a total of 6 filters observed. There will be used to derive effective temperatures of the cluster content, determine the fraction of objects with circumstellar disks and to determine the spatial distribution of sources within the clump.
There are no requirements on additional calibration besides what is already planned as part of the NIRCam characterisation.
We further request parallel NIRISS observations. There is no constraint on the rotation angle for these observations that will be used to trace the general stellar population in the direction of G286.