---
id: 3772
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging  NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Emma Beasor"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "4.19/0"
program_title: "N6946-BH1: The first failed superova or a massive stellar eruption?"
type: "GO"
---
# 3772 - N6946-BH1: The first failed superova or a massive stellar eruption?
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3772
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label      | Observing Template | Science Target      |
| :--------- | :----------------- | :------------------ |
| NIRCam     | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) NAME-N6946-BH1 |
| MIRI       | MIRI Imaging       | (1) NAME-N6946-BH1 |

## ABSTRACT

N6946-BH1 may represent the first case of a red supergiant (RSG) collapsing directly to form a black hole (BH), with no associated supernova (SN). If proven, this would solve the problem of missing high mass progenitors to Type IIP SNe, as well as providing a natural pathway for the formation of stellar mass BHs, as observed by LIGO/VIRGO. However, currently we are unable to rule out that the star is still there but has enshrouded itself following a mass-loss event, similar to Eta Car's 'Great Eruption'. If this is the case, we would expect to see a brightly emitting dust shell at wavelengths >5um. If it has truly collapsed to a BH, there should be no luminous source left in the IR. With JWST we will be able to decisively rule out one of these scenarios. Either we will detect emission from a cool dust shell, indicating the RSG has not disappeared, or we will be able to rule out the presence of a luminous object embedded in a dust shell with 10sigma significance, and conclusively show the progenitor has indeed formed a BH. Whichever case is confirmed, we stress that the results will be profound for stellar evolutionary theory. In the first scenario, this would be the first time an otherwise normal RSG has been obersved to undergo such strong eruptive mass-loss, similar to that experienced by LBVs or the progenitors to Type IIn SNe. In the second scenario, we would be confirming the first direct collapse of an RSG to BH, representing an exciting new challenge for stellar evolutionary theory. Given that we have extensive progenitor information from pre-explosion imaging, this would provide a crucial first data point for the formation of BHs via failed SN.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We are proposing to observe N6946-BH1 with JWST NIRCam and MIRI with 6 filters across 1.1-21micron. In total, we are requesting 4.2 hours of JWST time including overheads.