---
id: 3779
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Danny Gasman  Co-PI: Ioannis Argyriou Tsikrikonis"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "29.75/0"
program_title: "The MIRI MRS Library"
type: "GO, Calibration"
---
# 3779 - The MIRI MRS Library
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3779
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                   | Observing Template                | Science Target  |
| :---------------------- | :-------------------------------- | :-------------- |
| 10 Lac bkg SHORT        | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) 10LAC-BKG   |
| 10 Lac mosaic SHORT     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) 10LAC       |
| 10 Lac bkg MEDIUM       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) 10LAC-BKG   |
| 10 Lac mosaic MEDIUM    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) 10LAC       |
| 10 Lac bkg LONG         | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) 10LAC-BKG   |
| 10 Lac mosaic LONG      | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) 10LAC       |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose the JWST Cycle 2 Calibration GO program, `The MIRI MRS library' in order to address the need for high spectroscopic fidelity in the mid-infrared. The goal of this proposal is to derive pointing-specific calibration solutions for spatially unresolved (point) sources. These solutions include pointing-specific: detector pixel non-linearity, fringe modulation, spectrophotometric correction, and detector-based point spread functions (PSFs). The MIRI MRS calibration pipeline outputs spectra in the 4.9 to 27.9 micron range with a spectral resolution of 4000-1500. The MRS has yielded never-before seen molecular features, and unprecedented sensitivity on the continuum of dust and ice features. Despite the breathtaking sensitivity of JWST and MIRI, persisting complex calibration issues bias the scientific interpretation of point source data: (1) detector-induced spectral fringes affect the pristine shape of molecular features, (2) amplifier-induced voltage-debiasing affects the pixel response, which in turn affects the shape of the continuum, (3) a significant non-repeatability of the MRS astrometric pointing causes both the fringes, the pixel response, and the detected PSF to be pointing-dependent. This calibration program will aim to fix these persisting issues for the largest majority of the MRS observations of point sources.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The bright O9V star 10 Lac (HD 214680) will be observed in a 3x3 fine raster mosaic around the nominal 4-point POSITIVE and NEGATIVE dither positions. The source and the dedicated background have already been observed as part of the Cycle 1 calibration activity PID 1524. In order to achieve the required pointing separation for the raster points of the source a mosaic with 99% row and column overlap is used. This will allow to sample the PSF and the MRS spectral fringes in an intra-pixel pattern to derive optimized calibration files for all MRS point source observations. For each exposure a single integration with a FASTR1 read-out pattern is used, where the number of frames has been optimized to cover the pixel dynamic range in the MRS Channel 1 wavelengths (4.9-7.7 m). Target acquisition is taken using the source itself in order to make sure that the source location is within the required uncertainty for the purpose of this proposal. The dedicated background is taken with the same number of frames as the science source, in a 2-point point source dither pattern. This will allow to directly compare with the identical background taken as part of PID 1524. The background and science observations (obs 1 and obs 2) should be taken in a non-interruptible sequence.

Due to the implemented mosaic pattern, dither patterns, and number of frames per integration, the science observation (obs 2) has a data excess over the middle threshold. This is necessary in order to meet the goals of the calibration proposal.