---
id: 3784
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Michael Zhang"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "16.56/0"
program_title: "Mapping the atmosphere or surface of a hot ultra-short-period super Earth"
type: "GO"
---
# 3784 - Mapping the atmosphere or surface of a hot ultra-short-period super Earth
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3784
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template            | Science Target               |
| :---- | :---------------------------- | :--------------------------- |
|       | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) 2MASS-J02531581+0003087 |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose to obtain a spectroscopic (2.0--5.3 um) phase curve of TOI 2445b, a hot (1340 K) 1.33 R_earth super-Earth which has the second highest planet-to-star flux ratio among rocky planets. The phase curve will constrain the planet's dayside and nightside temperatures, phase offset, Bond albedo, and heat recirculation efficiency. The large eclipse depth reduces the impact of the systematics and the large wavelength range captures 80% of the planet's thermal emission, ensuring accurate measurements of these quantities. A significant atmosphere would manifest as a diminished day-night temperature contrast, non-zero phase offset, and if there are clouds, high albedo. If there is significant eccentricity, the resulting tidal heating would be visible as anomalously high thermal emission. If there is no atmosphere, the observations are capable of distinguishing between different surface compositions. A basaltic crust of the type common on solar system terrestrial planets, for example, would be featureless and bright, while a Ca/Al-rich crust would be much colder and fainter. Our observations would shed light on the properties and origins of ultra-short-period planets, and serve as a pathfinder to future studies of the planet.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to observe TOI-2445b for 13.4 hours using NIRSpec BOTS with the PRISM. We will use the SUB512 subarray with the NRSRAPID readout pattern and 7 groups per integration. The observations will take a total of 26,365 integrations.

The should observations start before a secondary eclipse and end shortly after the following secondary eclipse, enabling us to capture two eclipses in one phase curve observation. We add 1 h of baseline before the first eclipse and after the second, and 2 h of extra padding at the beginning of the observation to mitigate the ramp.

Target acquisition should be done on the target itself. Even though it partially saturates the central pixel by 0.2 magnitudes, there are no better target acquisition targets nearby.