---
id: 3786
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging  MIRI/LRS  NIRSpec/FS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Andrew Swan"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "19.01/0"
program_title: "Sizing up silicates at six small stars: Characterising planetary debris orbiting white dwarfs"
type: "GO"
---
# 3786 - Sizing up silicates at six small stars: Characterising planetary debris orbiting white dwarfs
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3786
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label          | Observing Template                 | Science Target     |
| :------------- | :--------------------------------- | :----------------- |
| NIRSPEC        | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy    | (2) 0510+2315      |
| MIRI LRS       | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy   | (2) 0510+2315      |
| MIRI imaging   | MIRI Imaging                       | (2) 0510+2315      |
| NIRSPEC        | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy    | (4) 0529-3401      |
| MIRI LRS       | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy   | (4) 0529-3401      |
| MIRI imaging   | MIRI Imaging                       | (4) 0529-3401      |
| NIRSPEC        | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy    | (5) 0611-6931      |
| MIRI LRS       | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy   | (5) 0611-6931      |
| MIRI imaging   | MIRI Imaging                       | (5) 0611-6931      |
| NIRSPEC        | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy    | (9) 1814-7354      |
| MIRI LRS       | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy   | (9) 1814-7354      |
| MIRI imaging   | MIRI Imaging                       | (9) 1814-7354      |
| NIRSPEC        | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy    | (10) 2329+407      |
| MIRI LRS       | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy   | (10) 2329+407      |
| MIRI imaging   | MIRI Imaging                       | (10) 2329+407      |
| NIRSPEC        | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy    | (11) 0420-731      |
| MIRI LRS       | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy   | (11) 0420-731      |
| MIRI imaging   | MIRI Imaging                       | (11) 0420-731      |

---

## ABSTRACT

White dwarf planetary systems are a powerful complement to conventional exoplanet studies, as they record the bulk compositions of planetesimals being accreted by their host stars. Discerning their elemental abundances is now almost routine work, and we will soon be flooded with such data from multi-object spectroscopic surveys. Yet despite the immense benefit of this empirical ground truth to planet formation studies, its true potential can only be realised if the origins of the material are also known. Fortunately, the photospheric metals are supplied to the star from a circumstellar disk, which is observable in the infrared. These disks are dynamic environments, offering rich opportunities for theorists to wind back their evolution, and ultimately to constrain the source reservoirs for the material.

We propose near- and mid-infrared observations of a sample of dusty white dwarfs to characterise the mineralogy, grain size, and geometry of their debris disks. Each of these parameters are fundamental to theories of disk evolution, but at present there are almost no data with which to constrain them. Half of our targets exhibit optical emission lines from gas, interpeted as a signature of enhanced collisional activity, and our grain size measurements will test that hypothesis. NIRSpec spectroscopy will measure the thermal continuum, probing disk geometry while also sensitive to previously-unseen emission lines and solid-state features. MIRI spectroscopy, supplemented with longer-wavelength photometry, will measure the solid-state features that trace the disk mineralogy, in particular the silicate feature at 10 microns, whose strength depends on grain size.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We use MIRI LRS to characterise six white dwarf debris disks, aiming to measure their grain size and mineralogy via solid-state features, most prominently the 10-micron silicate feature. We extend coverage to 21 microns with MIRI imaging photometry in order to capture the thermal continuum (with potential contributions from cooler dust) and the silicate feature at 18 microns.
NIRSpec medium-resolution spectroscopy is used to meaure the thermal continuum at high S/N, and to capture any subtle solid-state features or gas emission lines.