---
id: 3788
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Daniel Weisz"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "24.21/0"
program_title: "Alpha Elements and the Baryon Cycle in Isolated Dwarf Galaxies"
type: "GO"
---
# 3788 - Alpha Elements and the Baryon Cycle in Isolated Dwarf Galaxies
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3788
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                                       | Observing Template              | Science Target             |
| :------------------------------------------ | :------------------------------ | :------------------------- |
| LeoA_p_t_5                                  | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (14) LeoA_MSA-Catalog      |
| ic1613_3nod_ps_t                            | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (11) IC1613-MSA-Catalog    |
| ic1613_3nod_ps_t                            | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (11) IC1613-MSA-Catalog    |
| tucana_p_t_right_addl_test_height_c2 | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (15) tucana_MSA-Catalog    |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose to use NIRSpec multi-object spectroscopy to measure [alpha/Fe] for 150-200 red giant stars to a precision of 0.1-0.3 dex in 3 isolated dwarf galaxies with diverse star formation histories (SFHs; ancient, constant, young) as measured by HST. Target stars have ages spanning ~1-13 Gyr, enabling the construction of the first well-constrained [alpha/Fe] vs. [Fe/H] diagrams for low-mass galaxies that have not been significantly influenced by a massive host. Such diagrams have provided deep knowledge of the formation of the Milky Way and its satellites (e.g., star formation efficiencies, Type II and Type Ia supernova contributions, bursty star formation), but are challenging to construct using the faint stars of distant (1 Mpc) isolated galaxies. We will (1) empirically characterize the [alpha/Fe] vs. [Fe/H] trends in each galaxy (i.e., plateau, knee, shin); (2) use semi-analytic chemical evolution models and state-of-the-art cosmological simulations to constrain and infer the baryonic processes that shaped each galaxy's evolution; (3) integrate our measurements into SFH fitting codes to achieve sub-Gyr age resolution at the oldest epochs; (4) measure velocity dispersions to a precision of 5 km/s for ~100 stars in the crowded inner regions of each galaxy.
This program will provide unique insights into the evolution of low-mass galaxies in absence of environmental influence. Such systems are key tests of the physics of galaxy evolution. Measuring [alpha/Fe] for large numbers of stars in distant systems is only possible due to the excellent sensitivity and angular resolution of JWST – no other facility can make these measurements for faint, crowded stars.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

In this program, we will obtain NIRSpec MOS of 150-200 red giant branch (RGB) stars in 3 diverse isolated dwarf galaxies: Tucana, Leo A, and IC 1613. We use existing deep HST/ACS data for targeting. Each galaxy has many stars suitable for MSAIA without violating crowding constraints.
We fill our masks preferentially with stars on the upper RGB (19.5 < F814W < 23) for which [alpha/Fe] and [Fe/H] can be measured to 0.1-0.3 dex precision (~40-80 primary stars per galaxy; 150-200 in total). Available slits are then assigned to fainter RGB stars (23 < F814W < 24) for which radial velocity measurements are still possible (~100 ancillary stars in total). We adopt the midpoint slit centering constraint when assigning stars to slits. The remainder of the mask is filled with ~30-60 "blank sky" shutters where we know no stars with F814W < 24 exist in order to sample the background. We only need a single slit configuration per galaxy to get a sufficiently large samples.
NIRSpec observations will be taken with the G140H/F100LP disperser-filter pair, providing 0.97-1.82 micron spectral coverage at R ~ 2700. At this modest resolution, measuring [alpha/Fe] and [Fe/H] to 0.1-0.3 dex precision can be achieved with spectra of S/N > 30 per pixel at 1.4 micron. This requires ~5.5 hours of integration per galaxy for our faintest primary stars (F814W = 23). The median S/N of our primary sample will be ~42 per pixel at 1.4 micron, while the median S/N of our ancillary targets will be ~8 per pixel at 1.4 micron. For both MSA configurations, we will take 4 exposures split across a 3-shutter cross-dispersion dither. Each NIRSpec exposures will employ the NRSIRS2RAPID readout pattern with 3 integration of 112 groups for a total of 19608s total integration per galaxy.
We do not request any specific orientation or observing constraints. As a result, the proposed observations are broadly schedulable for several dozen day outside of the meteor avoidance zone during the Cycle 2 window.