---
id: 3794
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Allison Kirkpatrick"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "67.5/0"
program_title: "MEGA Mass Assembly at Cosmic Noon: MIRI EGS Galaxy and AGN Survey"
type: "GO"
---
# 3794 - MEGA Mass Assembly at Cosmic Noon: MIRI EGS Galaxy and AGN Survey
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3794
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label    | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :------- | :----------------- | :------------- |
| MIRI 1   | MIRI Imaging       | (2) MIRI-1     |
| MIRI 2   | MIRI Imaging       | (3) MIRI-2     |
| MIRI 3   | MIRI Imaging       | (5) MIRI-3     |
| MIRI 4   | MIRI Imaging       | (4) MIRI-4     |
| MIRI 5   | MIRI Imaging       | (6) MIRI-5     |
| MIRI 6   | MIRI Imaging       | (7) MIRI-6     |
| MIRI 7   | MIRI Imaging       | (8) MIRI-7     |
| MIRI 8   | MIRI Imaging       | (9) MIRI-8     |
| MIRI 8   | MIRI Imaging       | (9) MIRI-8     |
| MIRI 9   | MIRI Imaging       | (10) MIRI-9    |
| MIRI 10  | MIRI Imaging       | (11) MIRI-10   |
| MIRI 11  | MIRI Imaging       | (12) MIRI-11   |
| MIRI 12  | MIRI Imaging       | (13) MIRI-12   |
| MIRI 13  | MIRI Imaging       | (14) MIRI-13   |
| MIRI 14  | MIRI Imaging       | (15) MIRI-14   |
| MIRI 15  | MIRI Imaging       | (16) MIRI-15   |
| MIRI 16  | MIRI Imaging       | (17) MIRI-16   |
| MIRI 17  | MIRI Imaging       | (18) MIRI-17   |
| MIRI 18  | MIRI Imaging       | (19) MIRI-18   |
| MIRI 19  | MIRI Imaging       | (20) MIRI-19   |
| MIRI 20  | MIRI Imaging       | (22) MIRI-20   |
| MIRI 21  | MIRI Imaging       | (21) MIRI-21   |
| MIRI 22  | MIRI Imaging       | (23) MIRI-22   |
| MIRI 23  | MIRI Imaging       | (24) MIRI-23   |
| MIRI 24  | MIRI Imaging       | (25) MIRI-24   |
| MIRI 25  | MIRI Imaging       | (26) MIRI-25   |
| MIRI 27  | MIRI Imaging       | (28) MIRI-27   |

---

## ABSTRACT

Cosmic Noon (z=1-3) was the heyday of stellar and black hole mass assembly in the Universe. Yet, our picture of these processes is incomplete due to limitations of the previous generation of infrared telescopes. As the gas fractions increase with increasing redshift, so does the presence of dust in galaxies, obscuring star formation and black hole growth. Understanding the coeval buildup of stars and the central supermassive black holes in galaxies requires resolved observations which only JWST can provide. We propose a MIRI Survey covering ERS NIRCam observations of the EGS field. We will use the 770W, 1000W, 1500W, 2100W filters, in order to observe dust-obscured star formation and black hole growth during this important epoch of galaxy evolution. We predict we will observe >3000 galaxies at z=0.5-3.5. Our survey reaches an order of magnitude below the knee of the luminosity function at these redshifts. We will combine MIRI + NIRCam + existing HST to measure stellar mass, black hole mass, star formation rates, and black hole accretion rates. We will determine, for the first time, the cosmic star formation rate density occurring in galaxies that are simultaneously hosting active galactic nuclei and building up their stellar mass. We will determine the location of hundreds of active galactic nuclei (obscured, low luminosity, or in lower mass galaxies) on the main sequence--a novel measurement at this redshift range. Finally, we will combine with HST observations to determine the spatial distribution of unobscured and obscured star formation in galaxies as a function of mass and redshift. All of these measurements are only now possible due to the resolution of JWST/MIRI.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We request 26 MIRI pointings in the EGS field, to complement CEERS ERS NIRCam observations. In 23 pointings, we request F770W (1100s, flux limit=0.3uJy), F1000W (1100s, flux limit=0.5uJy), F1500W (1354s, flux limit=1.2uJy), and F2100W (2054s, flux limit=3.1uJy). In the other three pointings, we only need F1000W, F1500W, and F2100W as F770W is publicly available through an ERS proposal. These limits will allow us to detect ~3000-4000 galaxies, at least an order of magnitude below the knee of the luminosity function, out to z=3.5.

We request a narrow range of rotation angles, primarily between 130 deg and 142 deg, which is determined based on the CEERS EGS NIRcam layout. We use the 4 point dither pattern optimiazed for extended sources, and we use the FAST1 readout pattern. For F770W, we request 100 groups/integration and 1 integration/exposure. For F1000W, we request 100 groups/integration and 1 integration/exposure. For F1500W, we request 40 groups/integration and 3 integrations/exposure. For F2100W, we request 30 groups/integration and 6 integrations/exposure. We used the ETC to fine tune the number of groups in each filter so that there is no saturation.