---
id: 3805
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Fabio Pacucci"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "12.38/0"
program_title: "A NIRSpec Look at the Emission and Gas Kinematics of the SMBH in the Milky Way Dwarf Satellite Leo I"
type: "GO"
---
# 3805 - A NIRSpec Look at the Emission and Gas Kinematics of the SMBH in the Milky Way Dwarf Satellite Leo I
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3805
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label      | Observing Template         | Science Target     |
| :--------- | :------------------------- | :----------------- |
| Target     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy   | (1) LEOI           |
| Background | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy   | (3) LEOI-background |

## ABSTRACT

A SMBH of ~3 million solar masses at the center of the Milky Way satellite galaxy Leo I was recently discovered via dynamical measurements. Extensive multiwavelength data, from radio to X-rays, support the identification of this SMBH with a source, Leo I*. These observations match existing GRMHD simulations of the expected emission. This SMBH would be strikingly similar to Sgr A* but located in a close-by dwarf galaxy, which is under-dense and devoid of gas. Hence, Leo I* provides a uniquely unobstructed look into the central parsecs of a galactic nucleus. We propose to use JWST to probe the emission and kinematic structure of the environment around Leo I*. With high-resolution grating of R ~ 2700 in NIRSpec IFU, we plan to probe regions at >=0.1", or >=0.12 pc, from the SMBH, characterized by velocities of ~200 km/s. These observations will probe the near-infrared spectral shape of Leo I*: from the region ~0.1 pc around the SMBH accreting in ADAF mode, we expect a line-less spectrum due to gas being fully ionized. We will also probe the kinematics of gas/stars at > 0.2 pc from the source, where we expect partially ionized gas. These data will test the ADAF hypothesis and gain insights into the kinematics around the SMBH. The presence of such an over-massive SMBH can inform formation models for black holes, especially regarding the seed formation pathway at high-z. Moreover, at a distance of 0.25 Mpc, this SMBH could be a new target for space-based EHT observations. A NIRSpec observation on a location with robust evidence for emission could be a cornerstone for studying black holes, both in the local Universe and, indirectly, in the high-z one.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to observe Leo I* with NIRSpec IFU using the gratings G235H and G395H to probe the continuum emission and the inner velocity structure of sub-pc regions around the SMBH. We are requesting a high-resolution grating of R ~2700 in NIRSpec IFU in order to probe a velocity field of the order ~200 km/s. To reach our science goals, we request a total of 13.70 hrs of NIRSpec IFU time, of which 10.21 hrs is devoted to science.