---
id: 3818
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Cyril Gapp  Co-PIs: Luis Welbanks, Dana Louie, Jake Taylor, and Thomas Mikal-Evans"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "7.23/0"
program_title: "To be or not to be in equilibrium: Probing disequilibrium chemistry on the warm sub-Neptune TOI-270 d"
type: "GO"
---
# 3818 - To be or not to be in equilibrium: Probing disequilibrium chemistry on the warm sub-Neptune TOI-270 d
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3818
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label             | Observing Template               | Science Target |
| :---------------- | :------------------------------- | :------------- |
| G395H transit     | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) TOI-270    |

---

## ABSTRACT

TOI-270 d is currently the most promising target for the atmospheric characterization of sub-Neptunes using transmission spectroscopy, because its expected signal-to-noise ratio is outstandingly high and because an atmospheric signal was recently found using HST WFC3, increasing the prospects of a H/He-dominated, cloud-free atmosphere producing strong signals. In Cycle 2, it will be targeted using NIRISS SOSS as part of a GTO program and we propose to extend the wavelength coverage by observing a transit of TOI-270 d using NIRSpec G395H. The additional data will cover the strongest absorption bands of CH4 and CO accessible to JWST, key molecules to constraining the role of disequilibrium chemistry in TOI-270 d's atmosphere and its possible interior structure. In the warm temperature of TOI-270 d (Teq = 350 K), carbon should be predominantly present in CH4, whereas CO is expected to be the most dominant carbon-bearing molecule at higher temperatures (> 700 K). However, chemical reaction times increase as temperatures decrease so that disequilibrium processes caused by, e.g., horizontal winds, vertical mixing and stellar radiation are likely to become important, increasing the CO abundance against chemical equilibrium. Indeed, the depletion of CH4 in a few warm (< 700 K) planets observed using JWST and Spitzer have delivered tentative evidence for disequilibrium chemistry in their atmospheres. Our transit observations employing NIRSpec G395H will put tight constrains on the CH4 and CO abundances in TOI-270 d's atmosphere, effectively probing the role of disequilibrium chemistry which the NIRISS SOSS observations alone fail to do.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will observe a primary transits for the sub-Neptune TOI-270d, using NIRSpec with the G395H grism. We will use the Bright Object Time Series (BOTS) mode optimized for transiting exoplanet observations, using the 1.6"x1.6" square aperture with no dithering. Since TOI-270 is too bright for WATA, we have selected a fainter nearby star for offset acquisition (using GAIA DR2).

The transit observation consists of a single exposure lasting 5.31 hours. The total charged time for the program is 7.23 hours. Based on HST, Spitzer and JWST experience, each exposure is phase-constrained to begin at least half a transit duration before transit ingress and to end at least half a transit duration after egress. This will allow the stellar baseline flux to be calibrated at the beginning and end of each exposure to track any instrumental drift. The phase windows are both 61 minutes wide.

We determined an optimal detector readout pattern and groups per integration using the officially-supported ExoCTK platform (https://exoctk.stsci.edu). Signal-to-noise ratios for the transmission spectra of both targets were calculated using PandExo (https://exoctk.stsci.edu/pandexo).