---
id: 3832
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging  MIRI/LRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Elena Gallo"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "6.82/0"
program_title: "Quiescent Black Hole X-Ray Binaries in the Mid-IR: Relativistic Jet or Circumbinary Disk?"
type: "GO"
---
# 3832 - Quiescent Black Hole X-Ray Binaries in the Mid-IR: Relativistic Jet or Circumbinary Disk?
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3832
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                        | Observing Template               | Science Target       |
| :--------------------------- | :------------------------------- | :------------------- |
| Imaging A0620                | MIRI Imaging                     | (1) A0620-00         |
| Imaging J1118                | MIRI Imaging                     | (2) XTEJ1118+480     |
| LRS A0620                    | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) A0620-00         |
| LRS J1118                    | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) XTEJ1118+480     |

---

## ABSTRACT

JWST offers the opportunity to solve a long-standing puzzle about the nature of the mid-IR emission from quiescent Galactic black hole X-ray binaries, i.e., systems with X-ray luminosities well below 1E-4 times their Eddington limit, L_Edd. Spitzer IRAC/MIPS observations of two prototypical such systems, 1A 0620-00 and XTE J1118+480 (1E-9 and 1E-9 L_Edd, respectively) detected clear evidence for mid-IR excess emission above the donor star photosphere spectra. The large error bars at 8 and 24 micron allow for radically different interpretations of this excess emission; either partially self-absorbed synchrotron emission from a relativistic jet, or, thermal emission from circumbinary material that reprocesses the light of the donor star. This GO program aims to leverage the superior sensitivity of JWST/MIRI to ascertain the physical nature of the mid-IR excess seen by Spitzer. If the circumbinary disk scenario proves to be correct, it may even account for the unusually large orbital decay rates of these systems. Either interpretation would have important consequences for our understating of how the jet power scales with accretion rate – a critical question across the black hole mass scale.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

MIRI LRS plus 4 band imaging observations of 2 low-luminosity Galactic X-ray binaries.