---
id: 3838
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: James Kirk  Co-PI: Eva-Maria Ahrer"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "49.21/0"
program_title: "Does atmospheric composition actually trace formation? Observing aligned vs misaligned hot Jupiters as a testbed"
type: "GO"
---
# 3838 - Does atmospheric composition actually trace formation? Observing aligned vs misaligned hot Jupiters as a testbed
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3838
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label             | Observing Template               | Science Target |
| :---------------- | :------------------------------- | :------------- |
| TRES-4 transit    | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) TRES-4     |
| KELT-7 transit    | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (2) KELT-7     |
| NGTS-2 transit    | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (3) NGTS-2     |
| WASP-15 transit   | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (4) WASP-15    |
| HAT-P-30 transit  | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (5) HAT-P-30   |

---

## ABSTRACT

A primary motivation behind measuring the composition of exoplanetary atmospheres is to understand planet formation and evolution. A key challenge is determining what variations in atmospheric composition can be attributed to different planet formation histories; a problem made more challenging by the various uncertainties affecting protoplanetary disc composition and planetary evolution. Thus, it needs to be proven that the field's desire to measure atmospheric composition will lead to insights into their origins. The obvious first step is to identify groups of planets that likely had very different formation pathways and determine whether these planets show any significant differences in their composition. We propose to compare the composition of a sample of hot Jupiters whose orbits are aligned and misaligned relative to their host stars' spin axes. It is believed that aligned hot Jupiters are the outcome of disc migration, while misaligned ones arise from high-eccentricity migration. This dichotomy in their origins means formation models robustly predict that aligned planets should be oxygen-rich at high atmospheric metallicities. By comparing the relative composition of an aligned and misaligned hot Jupiter sample, we will test if atmospheric composition depends on planet migration and, thus, if atmospheric composition can be used to make inferences about formation.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

For this proposal we will observe 1 transit each of 5 gas giant exoplanets: HAT-P-30b (Kmag = 9.15), KELT-7b (Kmag = 7.54), NGTS-2b (Kmag = 9.80), WASP-15b (Kmag = 9.69), and TrES-4b (Kmag = 10.33). We will observe these with the G395H grism and F290LP filter on the NIRSpec instrument. This will provide us with spectrophotometry covering the wavelength range of 3--5 microns with a resolving power of R=2700. By measuring the wavelength-dependence of our planets' transit depths we will identify, and measure the abundance of, opacity sources within the planets' atmospheres. We will use the 2048 subarray and perform a single exposure for each target consisting of several hundred to several thousand integrations covering a continuous baseline of several hours. We are aware that 1 continuous exposure per target might mean some integrations are affected by a high gain antenna move. If this occurs, we will clip out the affected frames at no significant loss of science information, as was done in the JWST ERS analysis of WASP-39b (Rustamkulov et al. 2023). For all of our targets, we set the number of groups/integration = 80% of the saturation threshold. We request a total observation duration per target equal to the planet's transit duration + 4 hours which includes sufficient out-of-transit baseline to accurately and precisely measure the in-transit absorption, along with a 1h window for scheduling flexibility.

As all our science targets are too bright to use them for target acquisition (TA), we will utilize nearby (within splitting distance) fainter stars to conduct TA via the Wide Aperture Target Acquisition (WATA) mode. We have selected them using both the 2MASS and GAIA DR3 catalogues. The first one ensures that we have the necessary brightness for each star to achieve successful TA (SNR > 20 as verified with the ETC), while the latter ensures that the positions and proper motions of each star are accurate. The stars have K magnitudes between 14.3 and 15.5 and are listed here with their 2MASS identifier: 08154583+0550218 (HAT-P-30), 05131299+3319194 (KELT-7), 14203188-3112273 (NGTS-2), 13554509-3209041 (WASP-15) and 17531241+3712396 (TrES-4). For each TA we used the CLEAR filter, SUB32 subarray and 3 groups per integration. We will double check this setup with scheduling prior to the observation to ensure success.