---
id: 3840
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Coronagraphy"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Ell Bogat  Co-PI: Joshua Schlieder"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "8.43/0"
program_title: "JWST NIRCam Confirmation of the First Directly Imaged Sub-Saturn Mass Exoplanet"
type: "GO"
---
# 3840 - JWST NIRCam Confirmation of the First Directly Imaged Sub-Saturn Mass Exoplanet
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3840
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label              | Observing Template           | Science Target |
| :----------------- | :--------------------------- | :------------- |
| 2MJ0944 roll 1     | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (1) 2MJ0944    |
| 2MJ0944 roll 2     | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (1) 2MJ0944    |
| V-AP-COL roll 1    | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (2) V-AP-COL   |

---

## ABSTRACT

Around nearby M dwarf stars, ground and space based high-contrast imaging has historically struggled to probe below 1 Jupiter mass at large separations. This population of planets remains poorly constrained around the most common stars in the Galaxy. However, a JWST NIRCam 3-5 micron coronagraphic imaging survey of nearby young M dwarfs reveals routine sensitivity to sub-Jupiter mass planets at wide separations (>10 AU). These data have allowed the identification of a first of its kind sub-Saturn mass exoplanet candidate associated with a young M dwarf in the Solar neighborhood. The candidate is 21 mag at F444W and detected at >5 sigma significance. It remains undetected at F356W and limits on its color are consistent with model predictions for young sub-Saturn mass exoplanets. The candidate's photometric properties also rule out common stellar and galactic background sources as contaminants. This candidate is unprecedented and its confirmation can only be pursued by JWST. Here we propose a small 8.88 h program to confirm this sub-Saturn via deeper coronagraphic imaging and a detailed astrometric analysis to verify common proper motion with the putative host star. This is easily achievable given the star's proper motion (0.33"/yr), the >=11 months between the first observation and those proposed here, and the high astrometric accuracy achievable with NIRCam. Confirmation of this young sub-Saturn candidate will provide the first key constraints on the luminosity and early evolution of low-mass gas giants. It will also drive future theoretical work to model its properties, and undoubtedly lead to future JWST direct imaging to further characterize this exciting candidate.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose 8.88 h of JWST NIRCam coronagraphic imaging to follow up and confirm the first directly detected sub-Saturn exoplanet candidate. We will observe the science target using the M335R mask in the F356W and F444W filters at two roll angles separated by ~10 degrees to enable angular differential imaging to suppress the stellar PSF. We will also take advantage of the newly available simultaneous short-wave option and also observe in the F200W filter. In a unbroken sequence with the science target, we will observe a PSF reference that is well matched in temperature and magnitude using the same instrument set-up in a 9-point small grid dither pattern at one roll angle. This will allow for additional suppression of starlight by using the diversity of PSFs from the dither pattern in a reference library for reference differential imaging analyses. We will also obtain astrometric confirmation images to enable precise measurement of the absolute host star position and a common proper motion analysis to confirm that the exoplanet candidate is bound to the host star.