---
id: 3843
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Matthew Bayliss"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "14.9/0"
program_title: "Resolving Star Formation at the Star Cluster Scale Down to ~30 pc at z=2.5"
type: "GO"
---
# 3843 - Resolving Star Formation at the Star Cluster Scale Down to ~30 pc at z=2.5
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3843
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                   | Observing Template        | Science Target                  |
| :---------------------- | :------------------------ | :------------------------------ |
| NRSIRS2-test            | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (3) Group S1110TARGETGROUP      |
| NRSIRS2-test            | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (3) Group S1110TARGETGROUP      |
| NIRCam for S1110        | NIRCam Imaging            | (1) SGAS1110-IFU-POS1           |
| NRSIRS2-reobservation   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (3) Group S1110TARGETGROUP      |

---

## ABSTRACT

Understanding the modes and physical scale of star-formation in the distant universe requires resolved studies of individual star-forming regions and their stellar populations. This is a proposal to use one of the most spectacular strongly lensed galaxies known to spatially resolve the properties of dozens of individual compact, star-forming clumps with physical sizes ~<30 pc at z=2.5. The fortuitous strong lensing configuration of the target system provides a truly unique opportunity to perform a spatially resolved census of the diffuse and clumpy star formation and ionized nebular gas in a lensed starburst galaxy at Cosmic Noon. We will obtain broadband NIRCam imaging and NIRSpec IFU spectroscopy to measure the stellar continuum from 0.13-1.3 microns, and nebular emission lines between 0.3-0.9 microns. Spectroscopy will inform spectral diagnostics of the nebular gas (ionization state, metallicity, dust extinction) and map the velocity structure of the galaxy. The spectroscopy and broadband SEDs will be used to jointly constrain the star formation histories and stellar populations of individual clumps and diffuse star-formation across the galaxy. All of this will be done on spatially resolved scales down to ~<30 pc. These analyses will reveal whether the compact star forming regions are associated with the larger galaxy structure, or if they have different phase space and chemical properties that identify them as proto- or newly formed young globular clusters. This program will unpack the diversity of star-forming structures and star formation histories, including any "pure" single-burst star-forming regions, within a starburst galaxy at z=2.5.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This proposal requests NIRSPec IFU spectroscopy and NIRCam imaging of a strongly lensed galaxy containing 26 resolved star-forming clumps with physical sizes of ~30-60 pc. The proposed observations (in combination with archival HST imaging) are designed to measure spatially resolved H-alpha nebular emission and broadband spectral energy distributions spanning 0.12-1.3 microns rest-frame. Nebular lines will inform spatially resolved diagnostics of the ionized gas, including the Balmer Decrement, N2/Ha and R23 metallicity proxies, and O3/O2 and O3/Hb ionization parameter measurements. The H-alpha emission line will also be measured with velocity precisions of <30 km/s, informing a high quality velocity map across the entire galaxy, including peculiar velocities of the dozens of individual compact star forming regions.