---
id: 3849
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Mario Gennaro"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "42.43/0"
program_title: "A Pristine IMF Probe of the Star-Forming Conditions in the Early Universe"
type: "GO"
---
# 3849 - A Pristine IMF Probe of the Star-Forming Conditions in the Early Universe
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3849
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :---- | :----------------- | :------------- |
|       | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) BOOI       |

---

## ABSTRACT

Ultra-faint dwarfs (UFDs) are exquisite relics of the high-redshift Universe. Their remnant stellar populations preserve the star-formation conditions from a time prior to the epoch of reionization. Using these fossils, we can quantify how the state of the early interstellar medium affected the process of star formation.
The impact of this primordial setting, with gas kinematics and metallicity distinct from today's Milky Way environments, is expected to be encoded in the Initial Mass Function. However, before the advent of JWST, it has been impossible to robustly probe IMF variations beyond the Milky Way using the simple and direct method of counting stars. Resolved stellar population studies with HST have only scratched the surface of possible IMF variations within the Local Group. We propose deep JWST/NIRCam imaging observations to study the stellar initial-mass function (IMF) of the Bootes I UFD satellite, using resolved star counts.
JWST/NIRCam can improve our knowledge of the IMF by providing the necessary sensitivity to go beyond the IMF peak, as well as a large field of view in the infrared. Deep and wide IR imaging is necessary to precisely estimate IMF parameters. Bootes I is the ideal candidate in terms of proximity and luminosity, and its ancient star-formation history ended before the onset of reionization. Our study will provide a benchmark for interpreting JWST observations of high-redshift galaxies caught in the act of forming stars, allowing a better characterization of the cosmic history of baryons.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We request JWST/NIRCam imaging observations of the dwarf Milky Way satellite Bootes I.
The target will be observed in full frame with the 2 NIRCam modules A and B.
We will obtain simultaneous observations in the F150W (Short wavelength channel) and F332W2 (Long Wavelength channel) passbands.
Bootes I is close to the Milky Way (66 kpc) and subtends a large area on the sky. We thus request a mosaic of 2x3=6 pointings.
To reach our required SNR, we will execute 20 dithers for each mosaic tile.
Each exposure consists in 9 groups, with the MEDIUM8 readout pattern.
We do not request any coordinated parallel observations.