---
id: 3855
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/FS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Lidia Oskinova"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "9.24/0"
program_title: "Catching stellar winds with the JWST: A NIRSpec study of O stars in the low-metallicity young cluster NGC346"
type: "GO"
---
# 3855 - Catching stellar winds with the JWST: A NIRSpec study of O stars in the low-metallicity young cluster NGC346
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3855
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Observation No. | Label   | Observing Template              | Science Target          |
| :-------------- | :------ | :------------------------------ | :---------------------- |
| 1               |         | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (23) Group BRIGHT-STARS |
| 2               | O-stars | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (120) Group NewObs      |

---

## ABSTRACT

Massive hot O-type stars are among the top cosmic influencers. Their ionizing radiation and stellar winds determine the physical conditions in young star clusters at times when low-mass stars and their planetary systems are still forming. The JWST opens a new era in studies of star clusters in galaxies across the Universe. To unleash the full potential of the JWST in uncovering the properties of O-stars at low-metallicity, new diagnostics must be developed.

We request NIRspec time to obtain the first IR spectra of the nearly complete sample of O-stars in NGC346 - the most massive young cluster in the metal-poor SMC galaxy. Recent attempts to obtain accurate measurements of stellar winds with HST UV spectroscopy reached their limits, as the key diagnostic UV lines formed in stellar winds of O stars with later sub-types vanish at this low metallicity. On the other hand, the hydrogen lines in the IR offer a sensitive diagnostic tool. Utilizing the unprecedented capabilities of NIRspec we will measure spectra of 21 O-stars with a broad range of masses. The new data will be complemented by UV and optical spectra and analysed using modern non-LTE models. For the first time the consistent stellar and wind parameters will be derived for a nearly full spectral range of metal poor O-stars. This program will deliver calibrated measurements of mass-loss rates in O stars and establish near-IR spectroscopy as a key tool for studies of stellar feedback at low-metallicities and in obscured regions. These strategic observations can be performed only by the JWST and will have long lasting impact.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose observations of 21 individual blue O-type stars located in a proximity to each other within a star cluster. Each star should be observed with a NIRspec FS using G395H grating. The stars are divided in two groups according to their brightness. The bright star group is observed using the SUBS200A1 subarray to avoid saturation, while the faint star group is observed using the FULL array. There are two visits, one per target group. The acquisition is performed once per visit, and then slewed to each individual target within the group.