---
id: 3859
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Masafusa Onoue  Co-PI: Xuheng Ding"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "10.96/0"
program_title: "Full Characterization of Starlight from a z=6.4 Quasar Host Galaxy"
type: "GO"
---
# 3859 - Full Characterization of Starlight from a z=6.4 Quasar Host Galaxy
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3859
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                      | Observing Template | Science Target      |
| :------------------------- | :----------------- | :------------------ |
| NIRCam_F115W_F250M_updated | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) HSCJ2236+0032   |
| NIRCam_F115W_F300M_updated | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) HSCJ2236+0032   |
| NIRCam_F200W_F444W_updated | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) HSCJ2236+0032   |
| NIRCam_F200W_F480M_updated | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) HSCJ2236+0032   |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose NIRCam multiband observations of a z=6.4 quasar, the host starlight of which was clearly detected in a pilot study with NIRCam F150W + F356W imaging and NIRSpec rest-optical spectroscopy. An eight-filter imaging spectrum of the high-redshift quasar host galaxy will cover from 1,400 to 6,730 angstrom in the rest frame. This rich photometric information enables us to robustly constrain the stellar mass and the stellar population for the first time at z>6. The newly proposed six broad+mediumband filters are carefully selected to capture the key features of a galaxy SED such as 4000 angstrom break. A 2D image-modeling technique will be used to subtract the glaring nuclear emission of the quasar from the images. The multiband detection of the quasar host will also be used to confirm a large quasar-galaxy spatial offset detected in the F150W image. We will also map out H-alpha emitting galaxies leveraging the F480M filter in order to characterize the large-scale environment around the billion-solar-mass black hole hosted by a massive galaxy.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This program will carry out NIRCam imaging observations for HSC J2236+0032, a z=6.4 low-luminosity quasar, the host starlight of which was detected in Cycle 1 observations (GO #1967) with NIRCam (F150W + F356W) imaging and NIRSpec G395M spectroscopy. In this Cycle 2 program, we will detect the quasar host galaxy in additional three broadband (F115W, F200W, F444W) and three mediumband (F250M, F300M, F480M) filters, after carefully subtracting unresolved nuclear emission of the quasar from the images. We will use a 2D PSF+galaxy decomposition method already tested with the JWST images. This program, combined with the Cycle 1 observations, will provide an imaging spectrumof the host galaxy over rest-frame 1,400 - 6,730 angstrom. This rich photometric information will be used to robustly constrain the stellar mass and stellar populations of the host galaxy. With the F480M filter, we will also select surrounding H-alpha emitting galaxies at the same redshift as the target quasar in order to characterize the large-scale structure. We will detect star-forming galaxies down to an unobscured star-formation rate of 5 Msun/yr with the F480M's 1.1 hours exposure.