---
id: 3889
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging  MIRI/LRS  NIRSpec/FS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Mansi Kasliwal"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "24.86/0"
program_title: "Identifying the heaviest of the heavy elements synthesized in neutron star mergers"
type: "GO, Long Term ToO, Non-Disruptive ToO"
---
# 3889 - Identifying the heaviest of the heavy elements synthesized in neutron star mergers
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3889
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label   | Observing Template                  | Science Target               |
| :------ | :---------------------------------- | :--------------------------- |
| NIRSPEC | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy     | (1) EMGW-TOO-BRIGHT-E1       |
| LRS     | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy    | (1) EMGW-TOO-BRIGHT-E1       |
| Imaging | MIRI Imaging                        | (1) EMGW-TOO-BRIGHT-E1       |
| NIRSPEC | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy     | (2) EMGW-TOO-BRIGHT-E2       |
| LRS     | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy    | (2) EMGW-TOO-BRIGHT-E2       |
| Imaging | MIRI Imaging                        | (2) EMGW-TOO-BRIGHT-E2       |
| NIRSPEC | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy     | (3) EMGW-TOO-FAINT           |
| Imaging | MIRI Imaging                        | (2) EMGW-TOO-BRIGHT-E2       |

## ABSTRACT

We now know that binary neutron star mergers are a prolific site of r-process nucleosynthesis where elements heavier than iron are synthesized. However, it is still unknown whether, which and how much of the heaviest of the heavy elements (in the second and third abundance peaks) are synthesized. The key to answering this question is late-time infrared spectroscopy. This is only now possible with the exquisite sensitivity of the JWST NIRSPEC prism and JWST MIRI. The overlap between JWST Cycle 2 and the upcoming fourth gravitational wave observing run presents an unprecedented opportunity to answer this question. Here, we request three non-disruptive target of opportunity observations of neutron star mergers. Our triggers are non-disruptive as our science goals drive us to wait for the ejecta to become optically thin and wait until the heaviest elements dominate the electron heating. Only then will we be able to directly identify multiple heavy elements in the ejecta and robustly determine relative nucleosynthetic yields.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We request a total of 24.9 hours for 3 non-disruptive Target of Opportunity (ToO) observations with JWST NIRSpec and MIRI to obtain 0.6 - 10 um spectroscopic and/or photometric follow-up measurements of kilonovae. We request JWST observations to commence between 15-25 days after the ToO trigger is submitted.

Assuming that the Gravitational Wave observing run begins in May 2023 and fully overlaps with Cycle 2, our trigger probability is >80%. Since the gravitational wave duration is 18 months, we request long-term status in Cycle 3.

Given the rapid evolution of kilonovae, we request the special requirement of non-interruptible group observations for the NIRSpec and MIRI observations to get the full wavelength coverage for each ToO.

Given the immense value of this data to the astronomy community, we waive the exclusive proprietary access period so that our data are made publicly available immediately.