---
id: 3905
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Benjamin Johnson  Co-PI: Daniel Eisenstein"
prime_parallel_time_hours: ""
program_title: "Data-Driven Wisp Templates and Flat Fields for NIRCam"
type: "AR, Calibration"
---
# 3905 - Data-Driven Wisp Templates and Flat Fields for NIRCam
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3905
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
**1. List of Labels, Observing Template, and Science Targets (OBSERVATIONS Table)**

The `OBSERVATIONS` table, which should contain the List of Labels, Observing Template, and Science Targets, is not present in the provided images. Only the heading "OBSERVATIONS" is visible, but no table content follows it.

## ABSTRACT

Extracting the most information from JWST NIRCam observations requires addressing several known issues in the NIRCam images such as wisps. We propose to use extensive NIRCam imaging that has been taken during Cycle 1 to construct a large dataset of pixels that have seen only astrophysical and telescope backgrounds. We will use these these pixels to extract, via matrix decomposition, a number of NIRCam background 'templates' that describe the morphology of the wisp straylight and its variation. We will also use the dataset to construct high signal-to-noise `sky flats`, both through robust stacking and from components of the matrix decomposition which naturally account for varying backgrounds. We will look for indications of any other effects that may have stable spatial distributions but vary in amplitude. These analyses will require extensive masking of flux from stars and and galaxies. We will release the wisp templates and flat fields to the community along with tools for their use.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This proposal will produce a set of multiple wisp templates for every NIRCam short-wavelength detector that can be fit to and subtracted from images. The multiple templates will account for any variations in the wisp morphology. They will be derived from aggressively source masked pixels in existing imaging data using matrix decomposition techniques. We will use the same set of source masked pixels to construct 'sky' flats. All templates and tools for fitting them to images will be made available to the community.