---
id: 3907
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Yichen Zhang  Co-PI: Jonathan Tan"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "7.8/2.87"
program_title: "Unveiling the Early Stages of Massive Binary Formation with JWST"
type: "GO"
---
# 3907 - Unveiling the Early Stages of Massive Binary Formation with JWST
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3907
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label             | Observing Template | Science Target   |
| :---------------- | :----------------- | :--------------- |
| NIRCAM IRAS07299  | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) IRAS07299    |
| NIRCAM G339       | NIRCam Imaging     | (2) G339.88-1.26 |

## ABSTRACT

Most of massive stars are born in binary systems, therefore understanding massive binary formation is crucial for understanding massive star formation in general. Observational studies of massive forming binaries in the embedded phase are still very limited. JWST provides a new, unique window to study such systems. We propose JWST/NIRCam observations of two forming massive binaries, which are the closest-separation embedded-phase massive forming binaries identified to date. We aim to: 1) directly image the massive binaries utilizing the high resolution and sensitivity of JWST, and characterize the stellar properties and accretion status of individual members in these systems; 2) map the extended emissions of the outflow cavities, to determine the cavity geometries and heated dust distributions, especially in the innermost regions. 3) probe the low-mass young stellar objects (YSOs) forming along with the massive binaries, placing massive binary formation into the context of star cluster formation. To achieve the last goal, we also propose joint ALMA observation in 0.85 mm, to significantly improve the detection sensitivities of cold dust structures of the YSOs to achieve of a complete census of the low-mass YSO populations around these massive binaries. These observations will generate important constraints on theories of massive star formation, binary formation, and star cluster formation.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This programme will observe high mass star forming regions with NIRCam to characterise massive protostars, the protocluster environment, and the stellar content down to the substellar regime. It will use a single pointing with a 6 dither pattern and observe in three SW plus LW filters pairs (F162M+F150W2 plus F405N+F444W, F182M plus F470N+F444W, F200W plus F356W). These filters will reveal the stellar population, spatial distribution, and outflow activity in the regions. No extra special calibrations are needed.