---
id: 3942
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Mario Damiano"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "13.14/0"
program_title: "Probing the volcanic outgassing activity of a warm sub-Earth planet"
type: "GO"
---
# 3942 - Probing the volcanic outgassing activity of a warm sub-Earth planet
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3942
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template                | Science Target |
| :---- | :-------------------------------- | :------------- |
|       | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) L-98-59    |
|       | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) L-98-59    |
|       | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) L-98-59    |
|       | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) L-98-59    |

*(Note: The 'Label' column in the provided image is empty for all entries.)*

---

## ABSTRACT

Among the main sequence stars, the sub-group comprising smaller and cooler stars than theSun, e.g. M-dwarfs, represents the ideal environment to discover and characterize terrestrial planets. With an an equilibrium temperature <650K L98-59b is an important target to expand the knowledge on the volcanic outgassing of warm small planets. The measured mass and radius of L98-59b are compatible with a rocky core with an envelope. The radius (0.85 Rearth) places the planet in the Mars-sized regime and given its TSM of ~50, L98-59b is one of the best small planet for transmission spectroscopy characterization. HST observations have ruled out on the possibility of a H2-dominated envelope with the presence of H2O. However, the data is not enough to rule out H2O- or CO2- dominated atmospheric scenarios.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to use NIRSpec/G395H to measure the planet's transmission spectrum at 2.8 – 5.2 microns, and we expect the precision achieved (~17 ppm) to shed light onto the nature of L98-59b possible high mean molecular mass atmosphere.

**OBSERVING DESCRIPTION**
We will acquire the transmission spectrum of the warm Mars-size L98-59b, using NIRSpec/BOTS/G395H to cover the wavelength range 2.9 – 5.2 microns. We propose to obtain four transits with NIRSpec/G395H to achieve a precision of 17 ppm per spectral element on average at the resolution of R=100. We choose the number of groups to keep the saturation level within 65%, to make sure that the observations would be well within the detector's linear regime and maximize the efficiency of the observations. 2902 integrations will be collected to cover the entire transit event (~2.9 hours). We perform target acquisition (TA) on the target itself.

As is recommended for exoplanet transit observations, we include an out-of-transit portion of the light curve that lasts 1.5 times the transit duration and splits evenly before and after the transit. This is necessary to establish a baseline from which the transit depth can be determined and using which instrumental systematics can be modeled. Additionally, since any timing constraint narrower than 1 hour is considered “tight” and incurs a 1-hour scheduling overhead penalty, we use a timing window of exactly 1 hour, centered at 30 + out-of-transit-duration/2 minutes before the predicted start of the transit. The extra baseline also gives the instrument time to stabilize and thus reduce systematics.