---
id: 3950
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Kyle Finner"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "4.99/0"
program_title: "Unlocking the Early Universe for Weak Lensing with JWST: High-Precision Analysis of z=2 Galaxy Cluster XLSSC122"
type: "GO"
---
# 3950 - Unlocking the Early Universe for Weak Lensing with JWST: High-Precision Analysis of z=2 Galaxy Cluster XLSSC122
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3950
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label          | Observing Template | Science Target     |
| :------------- | :----------------- | :----------------- |
| F200W+F090W    | NIRCam Imaging     | (2) XLSSC122BCG    |

## ABSTRACT

XLSSC122 is a galaxy cluster at z=2 with a well-established red sequence. The cluster has a distinct XMM-Newton X-ray detection of the intracluster medium and a 7.6 sigma detection of the Sunyaev Zel'dovich decrement. These two measurements result in contrasting mass estimates. The SZ mass (M200~3e14 solar masses) is extreme for a galaxy cluster at redshift 2. Furthermore, the X-ray peak and SZ centroid are significantly offset, which may indicate a recent merger. We propose 3.3 hours of JWST NIRCam observations to enable a weak-lensing analysis that will map the mass distribution and provide an accurate mass estimate for the galaxy cluster. The high-resolution mass map that we will generate from JWST weak lensing will discern substructure better than current probes of the intracluster medium. With a robust mass estimation from weak lensing, we will inspect the rarity of XLSSC122 with cosmological models and compare the mass-to-light ratio of a galaxy cluster at cosmic noon to local clusters. Our weak-lensing analysis will also test the radial mass profile of a cluster in the early universe.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Weak lensing at this redshift has, as of yet, not been achieved. Reaching our goals requires a high number density of background galaxies that is unobtainable with the HST and can only be reached with the sensitivity, resolution, and IR filters of JWST. We provide validation tests that demonstrate the feasibility of weak lensing with the JWST. The JWST will be the telescope that allows high-z weak-lensing studies to thrive.
Observations of a z=2 galaxy cluster will be done with NIRCam. The cluster has a predicted angular size of 130 arcsecs.
We want the galaxy cluster center (BCG) to be placed slightly off the center of module A. We have included an offset to the target position so that the center of the cluster is situated near the center of module A. We place no constraint on the position angle of the telescope during the observation, but the location of the BCG in module A needs to be fixed (i.e., only the position of module A is important and not module B). We need to clarify this before observing!
Two SWL filters are the primary observations.
For the first filter setup,
F200W + F356W: 8 groups, 1 exposure, 4 dithers for a total of 3350s
For the second filter setup,
F090W + F277W:10 groups, 2 exposure, 4 dithers for a total of 8461s