---
id: 3958
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging  NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Angela Cotera-Hulet"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "5.84/0"
program_title: "The Sickle: Pillars of Creation in the Galactic Center"
type: "GO"
---
# 3958 - The Sickle: Pillars of Creation in the Galactic Center
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3958
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label             | Observing Template | Science Target           |
| :---------------- | :----------------- | :----------------------- |
| MIRI-POS1         | MIRI Imaging       | (1) SICKLE-MIRI-POS1     |
| MIRI-POS2         | MIRI Imaging       | (2) SICKLE-MIRI-POS2     |
| MIRI-Background   | MIRI Imaging       | (3) SICKLE-MIR-BACKGROUND |
| SICKLE-NIR-mosaic | NIRCam Imaging     | (5) SICKLE-NIR-POS       |

---

## ABSTRACT

As H II regions expand into their natal molecular clouds, they often create bubbles whose rims contain bright ionization fronts that are often further sculpted into features similar to the beautiful and iconic "Pillars of Creation" first observed in stunning detail by HST, and recently revisited by JWST. Models confirm that these features are sites of current star formation, but questions remain as to whether the stars forming there have been triggered or are simply being revealed as their surrounding cloud is eroded away. Very high-resolution images from nearby regions have enabled these models to be rigorously tested, but for a limited range of environmental conditions. The center of the Milky Way contains some of the most extreme conditions for star formation in the Galaxy, similar to starburst galaxies but observable at spatial resolutions unachievable elsewhere. The unique combination of environmental conditions and proximity makes the Galactic Center an ideal laboratory for testing theories of star formation, which often fail in this enigmatic region. Only one Galactic Center H II region, known as the Sickle, contains structures analogous to the ionic pillars. Until JWST, it has been impossible to observe these features with sufficient resolution to fully explore their nature as possible sites of triggered low mass star formation. We propose to obtain NIRcam and MIRI images of the Sickle pillars. When combined with recent advances in theoretical models, the proposed observations will enable us to address two essential unresolved questions of star formation in the Galactic Center: Is there triggered star formation? Is low mass star formation suppressed?

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to observe the northern edge of the Galactic Center Sickle H II region along an ionization front that contains approximately 7 columns or pillars. We will obtain NIRcam images in F182M, F187N, F210M, F335M, F470N and F480M filters. The images will be taken with SUB640 in the RAPID mode to minimize saturation due to numerous bright stars in the field of view. We will take all of the observations using 4 groups/4 integrations/4 dithers, for a total on source time of 167 sec for each filter/position. We have selected the M filters rather than the W filters to minimize saturation from bright stars. We anticipate that approximately 10% of the stars will still experience some saturation. In this mode, we will require three pointings to cover the entire ionization front, but are also able to avoid the brightest stellar sources in the region.

We will obtain MIRI images in the F770W, F1130W and F1500W filters. To avoid background saturation and minimize saturation from stellar sources, we will observed in the BRIGHTSKY array, in the FASTR1 readout mode. We will take all of the observations using 40 groups/1 integrations/4 dithers, for a total on source time of 138 sec for each filter/position. The selected dither pattern is point source to ensure full coverage for the primary science objects. We will require two pointings to cover the ionization front, and one to facilitate local background subtraction.