---
id: 3960
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Stacey Alberts"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "14.05/0"
program_title: "The Effect of Extreme ISM Conditions on Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbon (PAH) Properties"
type: "GO"
---
# 3960 - The Effect of Extreme ISM Conditions on Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbon (PAH) Properties
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3960
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label              | Observing Template                  | Science Target            |
| :----------------- | :---------------------------------- | :------------------------ |
| UGCA 410A          | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy            | (1) UGCA-410A             |
| MRK-1450           | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy            | (2) MRK-1450              |
| IRAS 11485-2018    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy            | (3) IRAS11485-2018        |
| SBS 1533+574B      | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy            | (4) SBS-1533+574B         |
| WR 140 C1          | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy            | (5) WR-140-C1             |
| UGCA 410A          | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (10) UGCA-410A-MRS        |
| UGCA 410A-BKG      | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (6) UGCA-410A-BKG         |
| MRK-1450           | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (11) MRK-1450-MRS         |
| MRK-1450-REPEAT    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (11) MRK-1450-MRS         |
| MRK-1450-BKG       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (9) MRK-1450-BKG          |
| MRK-1450-BKG-REP EAT | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (9) MRK-1450-BKG          |
| IRAS 11485-2018    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (12) IRAS11485-2018-MRS   |
| IRAS 11485-2018-BKG | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (7) IRAS11485-2018-BKG    |
| SBS 1533+574B      | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (13) SBS-1533+574B-MRS    |
| SBS 1533+574B-BKG | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (8) SBS-1533+574B-BKG     |

## ABSTRACT

Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) are small dust grains that play a fundamental role in the physical and chemical conditions of the interstellar medium (ISM), from photo-electric heating of interstellar gas to the formation of molecular hydrogen molecules. Their emission in the mid-infrared scales with the interstellar radiation field (ISRF) and as such they are routinely used as tracers of recent star formation out to high redshift. The interplay between grain properties and ISM conditions is complex and poorly understood, however. We propose to observe several PAH features in four local compact dwarf galaxies and a Wolf-Rayet binary system with the NIRSpec and MIRI IFUs. These targets are unique in having low metallicities and extreme ISRFs (as measured by forbidden line ratios) and will provide the definitive test of whether extreme ISM conditions destroy or enhance small grains. Comparisons with sources from the literature with low metallicities and moderate ISRFs will determine the drivers of changing grain properties. This work, only possible with the sensitivity and resolution of JWST, will be the benchmark for studies of high redshift galaxies, which have increasingly strong radiation fields and low metallicities.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This proposal will observe the mid-infrared spectrum (3-25um) of four local, compact dwarf galaxies with low metallicities and extreme interstellar radiation fields, as determine by mid-infrared forbidden line ratios from Spitzer/IRS, using NIRSpec and MIRI IFU. In additional, we will observe WR 140, a Wolf-Rayet binary star that is the target of Cycle 1 program (ERS 1349) to obtain MIRI/MRS spectroscopy. We will add in NIRSpec coverage of the 3.3um PAH feature, a robust tracer of average grain size.

MIRI/MRS IFU with full wavelength coverage will be obtained for the four compact dwarf galaxies (UGCA 410A, Mrk 1450, IRAS 11485-2018, and SBS 1533+574B) to detect several PAH features. A standard 4 point, extended dither will be used and dedicated backgrounds will be obtained to mitigate transient detector artifacts, cosmic rays, and background noise.

NIRSpec IFU will be obtained of the four galaxies and WR 140. As the targets are all of order 1" or less in size, pixel-to-pixel background subtraction will be done using pixel outside the targets. No TA will be done for MRS or NIRSpec IFU as the blind pointing accuracy is sufficient to center our targets.