---
id: 3962
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Benoit Tabone"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "5.62/0"
program_title: "A NIRSpec pilot program on planet-forming disks around very-low mass stars"
type: "GO"
---
# 3962 - A NIRSpec pilot program on planet-forming disks around very-low mass stars
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3962
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label (from Observation Folder) | Observing Template       | Science Target               |
| :------------------------------ | :----------------------- | :--------------------------- |
| 1                               | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) PGZ2001-J160532.1-193315 |
| 2                               | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (7) ISO-CHAI-147             |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose deep NIRSpec IFU observations from 1.66 to 5.27 micron of two disks orbiting very-low mass stars (VLMS). VLMS host a rich population of potentially habitable planets (e.g. Proxima Centauri b). Because their disks are faint, little is known about the formation of this planet population. The first MIRI-MRS observations of the two targets have already revealed an extremely rich hydrocarbon chemistry, potentially related to the destruction of refractory carbon. This suggests that planets formed around VLMS could have very distinct elemental compositions compared with more massive stars. However, NIRSpec spectroscopic observations of VLMS disks are critically lacking to establish a global view of the inner disk composition. The proposed NIRSpec observations will allow to (1) measure for the first time the C/O elemental ratio in the gas, (2) infer the radial distribution of elements across the disk, and (3) search for new gas-phase species and refractory carbon. This program will provide legacy value to the community by demonstrating the potential of NIRSpec observations of VLMS disks in combination of MIRI-MRS, and by providing necessary constraints to link the composition of exoplanets to their formation history.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We request NIRSpec IFU spectroscopy with the high spectral resolution gratings G235H and G395H (R~2700). We choose 4-point-dither over nodding in case the sources show extended emission in specific lines (H2, [Fe II]). The emission at other wavelengths is expected to be compact across the wavelength range (<1 au which corresponds to <5 mas at the distance of our targets). No dedicated background observation is required since empty sky in the field of view will be sufficient to correct for any background contribution. No additional leakcal exposure is required due to the absence of strong sources in the surrounding.

Our goal is to detect weak molecular emission lines down to 0.12 mJy at 4.6micron (CO fundamental band) and ~0.24 mJy at 2.5micron (SNR of 6). The line broadening is of the order of 20-40 km/s, thus all the lines are spectrally unresolved. We estimated the exposure time with the NIRSpec ETC using synthetic spectra of our two sources that fit the available photometric measurements at 2.2 and 5 micron. The combination of groups and integrations is chosen to reach the requested noise level avoiding detector saturation.