---
id: 3969
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Nestor Espinoza  Co-PI: Diana Powell"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "61.53/0"
program_title: "Hot Jupiter Atmospheric Forecast: Are mornings cloudier than evenings in other worlds?"
type: "GO"
---
# 3969 - Hot Jupiter Atmospheric Forecast: Are mornings cloudier than evenings in other worlds?
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3969
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label          | Observing Template                | Science Target |
| :------------- | :-------------------------------- | :------------- |
| Prism transit 1 | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) KEPLER-12  |
| Prism transit 2 | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) KEPLER-12  |
| G395H transit   | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (2) WASP-52    |
| Prism transit 1 | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (3) HAT-P-65   |
| Prism transit 2 | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (3) HAT-P-65   |

---

## ABSTRACT

JWST is revolutionizing exoplanet atmospheres. The very first few datasets are already showing how, using the technique of transmission spectroscopy in particular, rich chemical inventories and constraints on key atmospheric parameters can be extracted from this data with an unprescedented level of detail for Jovian and sub-Jovian exoplanets. This very same early JWST data, however, is also pushing the limits of how we classically model and interpret transmission spectra. In particular, signatures of inhomogeneous terminators are already arising from these datasets, a trend theoretical models expect will continue in future datasets. Modeling and understanding how common the effects of inhomogeneous terminators are in the gas giant exoplanet population is critical if we aim to properly study and interpret their atmospheres in particular if inferences on, e.g., their links with planet formation are ought to be extracted. Here, we propose the very first survey to constrain the physical properties of inhomogeneous terminators in gas giant exoplanets with JWST. Our carefully crafted sample, which spans gas giant exoplanets between 1000 K and 2000 K, is motivated by state-of-the art atmospheric circulation & cloud formation modelling predictions for the morning and evenings of exoplanets, which we will put to the test. In particular, we aim to constrain whether clouds indeed form higher up in the morning terminators than in the evenings terminators, as predicted by state-of-the-art modelling, and how this cloud location varies with equilibrium temperature.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This proposal aims to obtain:
- 2 transit events for Kepler-12b with NIRSpec/Prism (SUB512 --- 11.14 hours each; 5 groups/int; 29,131 integrations).
- 2 transit events for HAT-P-65b with NIRSpec/Prism (SUB512 --- 10.48 hours each; 3 groups/int; 40,787 integrations).
- 1 transit event for WASP-52b with NIRSpec/G395H (SUB2048 --- 5.56 hours; 35 groups/int; 616 integrations).

The "dwell equation" was used to obtain the total exposure times quoted above: 0.75 hr + MAX(2, T14) + T14 + 1 hr, where T14 is the transit duration.

The observations are time-constrained via phase-constraints. The transit ephemerides were obtained from the works of Ivshina & Winn (2022) for WASP-52b and from Kokori et al. (2022) for Kepler-12b and HAT-P-65b. These have uncertainties of under 1 minute during the duration of Cycle 2.

The TA follows the WATA Acquisition mode. Both Kepler-12 and HAT-P-65 are faint enough that TA can be performed directly on teh targets; with SUB32/F110W a SNR of 118 and 147 is obtained respectively for the targets with the JWST ETC. For WASP-52, a nearby target had to be selected for TA as WASP-52 itself is too bright for WATA. 2MASS 23140007+0846207 was selected which gives a SNR of 41 with SUB32/CLEAR according to the JWST ETC. All SNR's are > 20, which is excellent for TA.