---
id: 3973
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Coronagraphy  NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Timothy Pearce  Co-PI: Elisabeth Matthews"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "8.03/0"
program_title: "Using planets to dynamically weigh a debris disc for the first time"
type: "GO"
---
# 3973 - Using planets to dynamically weigh a debris disc for the first time
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3973
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                           | Observing Template             | Science Target  |
| :------------------------------ | :----------------------------- | :-------------- |
| HD53143 - science target        | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging   | (1) HD-53143    |
| HD53143 - science target        | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging   | (1) HD-53143    |
| HD37501 - PSF reference star    | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging   | (5) HD-37501    |
| HD53143 roll one                | NIRCam Imaging                 | (1) HD-53143    |
| HD53143 roll two                | NIRCam Imaging                 | (1) HD-53143    |

---

## ABSTRACT

Debris discs (like our Kuiper Belt) are a fundamental component of planetary systems, detected around 20% of main-sequence stars. They yield powerful insights into planetary system architecture, formation and evolution, but a major issue limits their effectiveness as probes of planetary systems: debris-disc masses are unknown. We aim to dynamically measure an extrasolar debris disc's mass for the first time. We would use JWST to search for planets in the specific system HD 53143, which hosts a narrow debris disc that is the most eccentric known. This makes it highly sensitive to planet-debris interactions. There is considerable evidence that at least one planet is present, and constraining its parameters would let us dynamically measure the debris-disc mass (which must be high enough for self-gravity to maintain the disc shape in the face of planetary perturbations). We ask for NIRCam imaging of the system, which would be sensitive to planets down to sub-Jupiter mass. A planet detection, combined with our novel interaction theory, would constrain the debris disc to be at least 10 to 100 Earth masses (a major advance, since extrasolar debris-disc masses are currently only constrained to be between 0.1 and 1000 Earth masses). Even a non-detection would be beneficial, as it would be combined with existing proper-motion-anomaly, SPHERE and RV data to bound the planet properties and still constrain the disc mass. The result would greatly aid debris and system-formation science, and put our Solar System into context. In addition, this programme offers the opportunity to detect and characterise a ~1 Gyr old exoplanet for the first time.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Our goal is to search for exoplanets below 2 Jupiter masses interior to the HD53143 debris disc; our images would also be sensitive to companions outside the disc.

We would observe HD53143 with the NIRCam coronagraph, using the dual-band imaging mode with the short-wavelength filter F200W, the long-wavelength filter F444W and the MASK335R coronagraph. We would also collect PSF reference images of HD37501 with the 5-point small grid dither technique. This allows the data to be reduced using reference differential imaging (RDI); we do not use angular differential imaging (ADI) in this case. HD37501 is ~0.6mag brighter than HD53143, has an on-sky separation from HD53143 of 10.2 degrees, and the two targets have well-matched spectral types for PSF subtraction, according to the JWST documentation.

We would also observe HD53143 without a coronagraph, using the same filters. In this case, we would collect data at two roll angles, with a PA offset between 8 to 14 degrees, to allow for angular differential imaging (ADI).

Our choice to use RDI vs ADI is based on the results of the JWST ERS program 1386, which found that RDI is significantly more effective at close separations, and ADI and RDI perform similarly further from the star. RDI+ADI was not found to offer significant improvement over RDI alone (Carter et al. 2023, Hinkley et al. 2023).

The coronagraphic science and reference images would be included in a non-interruptible sequence so as to minimize the time baseline between these images, and ensure a high-quality subtraction of the stellar PSF from the science data. Similarly, the two non-coronagraphic roll angles would be included in a non-interruptible sequence to ensure high-quality stellar PSF subtraction.

Our NGROUPS/INTEGRATION and NINTS/EXPOSURE are chosen based on the results of simulations with PanCAKE (for coronagraphic imaging) and pyNRC (for non-coronagraphic imaging). We designed our non-coronagraphic images to saturate at the stellar core, since the primary goal of these images is to probe to deep sensitivity beyond ~3".