---
id: 3979
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Susan Benecchi  Co-PI: Wesley Fraser"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "24.79/0"
program_title: "Are dark, red, small KBOs devoid of volatiles?"
type: "GO"
---
# 3979 - Are dark, red, small KBOs devoid of volatiles?
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3979
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label        | Observing Template | Science Target   |
| :----------- | :----------------- | :--------------- |
| Arawn        | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) ARAWN        |
| 2011 HK103   | NIRCam Imaging     | (2) 2011HK103    |
| 2011 HJ103   | NIRCam Imaging     | (9) 2011HJ103    |
| 2012 HZ84    | NIRCam Imaging     | (5) 2012HZ84     |
| 2011 JY31    | NIRCam Imaging     | (4) 2011JY31     |
| 2012HE85     | NIRCam Imaging     | (6) 2012HE85     |
| 2011HZ102    | NIRCam Imaging     | (7) 2011HZ102    |
| 2011 JX31    | NIRCam Imaging     | (3) 2011JX31     |

## ABSTRACT

As the New Horizons (NH) spacecraft transects the Kuiper belt it has been obtaining unique solar phase curves, lightcurves, and other information on numerous Kuiper belt objects (KBOs) not possible to obtain with Earth-based facilities. In this proposal we seek to use JWST/NIRCAM to fill out the spectro-photometric information available for these objects investigating for the first time their dominant surface compositions from 0.5-5µm, a wavelength region not yet explored due to ground-based instrument faintness limits and telluric contamination. This project asks the question: Are dark, red, small KBOs devoid of volatiles? It samples objects from d~60-120km assuming an albedo of 0.1 and will be the only dataset available for many years to come with measured shapes and microphysical properties (acquired through high-phase angle NH observations) with which to correlate against compositional properties. The proposed observations include KBOs from all the dynamical classes and as a full sample they will provide key context and constraints for KBO formation models.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This is an imaging program using NIRCAM simultaneously in 3 pairs of filters: (1) F115W (short) & F300M (long), (2) F200W (short) & F444W (long), and (3) F070W (short) & F274W (long) to obtain spectro-photometric colors of 8 Kuiper Belt objects aimed at distinguishing between organic, silicate and water-ice dominated surfaces. Integrations are calculated such that S/N is 30 for each object in the long bandpass.