---
id: 3989
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Coronagraphy"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Sasha Hinkley  Co-PIs: Cecilia Lazzoni and Sebastian Marino"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "24.83/0"
program_title: "Spotting the Perturbers: A Coronagraphic Survey of Debris Disk Stars with Common Proper Motion Anomalies"
type: "GO"
---
# 3989 - Spotting the Perturbers: A Coronagraphic Survey of Debris Disk Stars with Common Proper Motion Anomalies
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=3989
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label      | Observing Template            | Science Target   |
| :--------- | :---------------------------- | :--------------- |
| HD 21997   | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging  | (1) HD21997      |
| HD 25945   | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging  | (2) HD25945      |
| HD 92945   | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging  | (3) HD92945      |
| HD 92921   | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging  | (4) HD92921      |
| HD 202628  | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging  | (5) HD202628     |
| HD 190580  | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging  | (6) HD190580     |
| HD 195627  | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging  | (7) HD195627     |
| HD 197051  | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging  | (8) HD197051     |
| HD 109085  | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging  | (9) HD109085     |
| HD 114642  | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging  | (10) HD114642    |
| HD 109085  | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging  | (9) HD109085     |
| HD 114642  | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging  | (10) HD114642    |
| HD 164249  | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging  | (11) HD164249    |
| HD 161915  | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging  | (12) HD161915    |
| HD 113337  | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging  | (13) HD113337    |
| HD 125161  | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging  | (14) HD125161    |

---

## ABSTRACT

Using the NIRCam MASK335R coronagraph operating at 2.1 and 4.44 microns, we will directly image the massive planets that are responsible for inducing significant Proper Motion anomalies in a set of seven nearby star systems. Our program distinguishes itself from other JWST coronagraphic programs, as each of these systems possess a circumstellar debris disk that has been well-characterized by Herschel, ALMA or scattered light imaging in some cases. These resolved images of the debris disks give clear geometric information about the geometry of the system, which in turn tightly constrain the allowable masses and semi-major axis parameter space for any dynamical perturbers. Our detections of planetary mass companions will thus immediately provide their physical separation (in AU), and (crucially) their dynamical mass. The infrared photometry of these companions, combined with their dynamical masses, will put extremely powerful constraints on evolutionary models of exoplanet atmospheres as well as reveal important information about the early thermal histories of planetary mass companions.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will carry out NIRCam coronagraphy on a sample of seven nearby systems that show evidence for significant common Proper Motion anomalies (PMa) indicative of massive perturbers in these systems. These systems as have well-characterized circumstellar debris disks allowing us to derive the orbital geometry of the system, and therefore assign a dynamical mass and orbital separation for any of the planetary mass companions in this system.

We will use the NIRCam MASK335R coronagraph operating in the F200W and F444W filters to maximize our sensitivity to these planetary perturbers, as well as identify contaminants in the field of view. We have carefully selected reference PSF stars that show evidence that they are single stars, and are significantly brighter than the targets, allowing us to obtain a set of nine-point small grid dither observations for each science observation in a reasonable amount of integration time.

We have crafted our observing plan by scrutinizing the recommendations of the exoplanet direct imaging Early Release Science Program 1386, and carefully implemented these recommendations into our program. All of our observations will be sensitive to the planetary perturbers that are inducing the PMa's in these systems. The multi-wavelength photometry delivered by NIRCam, when combined with the dynamical mass that we derive, will be extremely powerful for constraining evolutionary models of exoplanet atmospheres, as well as placing essential constraints on the early thermal histories of planets.