---
id: 4008
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Sebastian Zieba"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "18.64/0"
program_title: "The search for regolith on the airless exoplanet LHS 3844 b"
type: "GO"
---
# 4008 - The search for regolith on the airless exoplanet LHS 3844 b
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4008
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label              | Observing Template                | Science Target |
| :----------------- | :-------------------------------- | :------------- |
| LHS3844b - G395H   | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) LHS3844    |

---

## ABSTRACT

Airless bodies in our solar system are rough and covered with regolith, a layer of dust and fine-grained debris originating from crumbled rocks. We show that well-known and understood processes caused by roughness lead most notably to more emitted flux around the secondary eclipse due to "thermal beaming". We propose to observe one phase curve (= 15 hours) of the rocky exoplanet LHS 3844 b with NIRSpec G395H. Previously, Spitzer observations of the planet showed that it has no significant atmosphere and is most likely an airless bare rock. Its short orbital period and high observability make it a perfect target for phase curve observations. Our proposed program will lead to the first observation of an exoplanet's surface roughness and open a window to the geologic history of LHS 3844 b. Detection of a rough regolith surface implies that LHS 3844 b's surface must have been stable for geologic timescales and undergone space weathering processes (impacts by micrometeoroids, cosmic radiation, or solar wind) that crumbled the rocks into fine-grained regolith. On the other hand, a smooth surface would indicate resurfacing events such as widespread volcanic activity or crustal reprocessing. In addition to the measurement of surface roughness, the phase curve observation will also lead to a precise measurement of the planet's phase-resolved spectrum. This will enable us to characterize the type of rock as a function of longitude, and also search for trace amounts of CO2 that were undetected by previous Spitzer observations.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to observe a phase curve of the exoplanet LHS 3844 b in the NIRSpec BOTS mode while using the G395H grating. The observations will include an additional 30 minutes to let the detector settle ("burn-in") and one hour of timing window, which we can use as an additional baseline. The phase curve observations should include 2 eclipses (which is common practice), so we added phase constraints to ensure that. As LHS3844 is to bright to use it for Target Acquisition, we determined the closest 2MASS point source and use it instead. We used Pandexo and the ETC to choose the setup: we will observe LHS 3844 with the SUB2048 subarray and the NRSRAPID readout pattern. By observing 15 Groups per Integration we will keep all pixels below 50% of saturation. The full phase curve will span 15.1 hours consisting out of 3769 Integrations.