---
id: 4014
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Coronagraphy"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Kevin Wagner"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "3.55/0"
program_title: "Imaging Planet Formation at its Earliest Stages: Measuring The Extinction Level of an Enshrouded Protoplanet"
type: "GO"
---
# 4014 - Imaging Planet Formation at its Earliest Stages: Measuring The Extinction Level of an Enshrouded Protoplanet
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4014
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template            | Science Target     |
| :---- | :---------------------------- | :----------------- |
| 1     | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging  | (2) HD-36575       |
| 2     | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging  | (1) MWC758         |
| 3     | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging  | (1) MWC758         |

## ABSTRACT

We propose to use JWST's unique capabilities in the thermal infrared to measure the level of extinction of a highly attenuated protoplanet, MWC 758c. As one of the youngest planets known, and currently the most reddened by circumplanetary dust, MWC 758c represents a novel opportunity to study planet formation at its earliest stages. By establishing the level of extinction of MWC 758c, we will constrain the amount of dust within the circumplanetary material. Current ground-based lower limits suggest optical extinction greater than 8 magnitudes, and due to the degeneracy with temperature, a wide range of optical extinction is possible (up to ~90 magnitudes based on existing data, which is on the upper end of planet-formation models). NIRCam's F430M mode, combined with the M335R coronagraph, will be able to constrain MWC758c's temperature to within 100-200K through the strength of molecular absorption features that are not observable from the ground. With temperature known, constraints on extinction will be improved by at least an order of magnitude, even in the event of a non-detection. Simulations suggest that observations with NIRCam will be able to detect MWC758c with SNR>10 for Av<40, and will be able to establish at least an S/N>5 detection for Av<90 under conservative assumptions of of wavefront error between roll angles and reference star. This covers essentially all possible values, and thus even a non-detection would be useful to constrain the amount of extinction to the upper end of its existing range. MWC 758c is a unique target for this scientific case and JWST is the first and only facility capable of measuring its temperature and level of extinction.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This program aims to make the first measurement of the level of extinction of an extremely reddened protoplanet, MWC 758c. This will be used to constrain its effective temperature and mass, and will be linked to models of giant planet formation to determine the planet's level of initial entropy. These constraints will then be fed into new simulations of this benchmark system for planet-disk interactions.

The observations are centered around obtaining F430M coronagraphic imaging with the smallest possible inner working angle, which will enable us to determine the effective temperature and level of extinction of MWC 758c. For this purpose, our simulations identified M335R to be the optimal mask that provides a balance between inner working angle and PSF stability at 4.3 microns. The observing strategy includes two spacecraft roll positions and one PSF reference star to enable combined angular plus reference differential imaging. Simultaneously, we will collect F200W observations that will provide new images of the disk structures (in particular at smaller separations than are possible with existing F200W direct imaging).