---
id: 4038
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/LRS  MIRI/MRS  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Sjoert van Velzen"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "4.08/0"
program_title: "First Infrared Spectra of a Tidal Disruption Event Dust Echo: Solving the Missing Energy Problem"
type: "GO, Non-Disruptive ToO"
---
# 4038 - First Infrared Spectra of a Tidal Disruption Event Dust Echo: Solving the Missing Energy Problem
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4038
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                      | Observing Template                  | Science Target   |
| :------------------------- | :---------------------------------- | :--------------- |
| epoch 1: MIRI LRS          | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy    | (1) Melisandre   |
| epoch 1: MIRI MRS          | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) Melisandre   |
| epoch 1: NIRSPEC           | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy            | (1) Melisandre   |
| epoch 1: NIRSPEC (repeat) | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy            | (1) Melisandre   |

---

## ABSTRACT

A tidal disruption event (TDE) of a star by a massive black hole yields a short and luminous flare of radiation, thus providing a unique signpost of otherwise dormant black holes. While the detection rate of optical TDEs is accelerating, our understanding of their optical emission has hit a formidable obstacle: the missing energy problem. The observed electromagnetic output of TDEs is almost four orders of magnitude lower than the gravitational potential energy that must be released when a star is accreted. This missing energy could either be emitted over a much longer timescale than the optical flare, or it could be emitted promptly but in the extreme-UV band. Discriminating between these two models will be required to unlock TDEs as tools for black hole demographics. Fortunately, the infrared reverberation signal from dust heated by a TDE can be used to measure the total energy of the event. These TDE dust echoes have recently been discovered, however their use as bolometers requires a much better measurement of the dust temperature and composition. JWST is ideally suited to make these observations. With a sequence of spectroscopic observations triggered on an IR-bright TDE, we will measure the dust grain sublimation rate by comparing the nuclear hot dust spectrum to its pristine off-nuclear state. And because circumnuclear dust in TDEs is suddenly exposed to UV radiation we will also constrain the grain properties via the temporal variability of the emission lines. These observations will yield the first-ever infrared spectra of a TDE, allowing us to solve the missing energy problem and measure the dust covering factor at sub-parsec scales.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This proposal contains ToO observations for one target. We have constructed an identical set of multi-instrument observations over three epochs. The first observation has a 3 month response time after the trigger. The following two epochs are to be spaced about 6-8 months apart. This means that 2/3 of our time allocation is expected to happen in the next cycles.

Each epoch has three visits: MIRI/LRS (slit), MIRI/MRS, and NIRSpec/PRISM. For MIRI/MRS we have selected the Medium and Long dispersers; simultaneous MIRI imaging is obtained in F770W and F1000W. Our target is expected to be relatively bright, 0.04-1 mJy at 3 micron. We have constructed the integration ramps to reach at most 50% of saturation for the bright end of this flux range. Upon triggering we will have a more precise knowledge of the flux, hence saturation can always be avoided.

We have requested that the three visits of a single epoch are scheduled as non-interruptible. This ensures that the observations of each epoch are executed in the same order, starting with target acquisition for MIRI/LRS.