---
id: 4056
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Emanuele Farina"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "8.83/0"
program_title: "Shedding Light on Early Structure Formation: Dissecting the Largest Gas Reservoirs of z=6.6 QSOs"
type: "GO"
---
# 4056 - Shedding Light on Early Structure Formation: Dissecting the Largest Gas Reservoirs of z=6.6 QSOs
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4056
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label      | Observing Template         | Science Target      |
| :--------- | :------------------------- | :------------------ |
| P323+21    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy   | (3) Group P323+21   |
| P231-20    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy   | (6) Group P231-20   |

## ABSTRACT
QSOs at the end of cosmic reionization are among the most luminous sources in the Universe. Their luminosity is produced by extreme gas accretion onto their central black holes, which grow by 20x in only 100Myr. Simultaneously, QSO host galaxies form hundreds of stars per year, using up gas in the process. Extensive VLT/MUSE observational campaigns recently revealed that z=6.6 QSOs P323+12 and P231-20 are embed in exceptionally large (>20pKpc) and luminous (L>10^44 erg/s) Ly-Alpha nebulae. These are tracer of the enormous cool gas reservoirs that are required to continuously fuel the rapid build up of the earliest QSOs.

However, the physical perperties of the gas in the nebulae cannot be constrained due to the resonant nature of the Ly-Alpha emission. NIRSpec IFU observations of non-resonant emission lines such as H-Alpha and [OIII] will characterize unambiguously the total mass and the kinematics of the emitting gas. NIRSpec in IFU mode is absolutely critical for our experiment: it is the only instrument that can provide the high spatial and spectral resolution and the high sensitivity necessary to map with unparalleled accuracy the 3D distribution of the cool gas in these two spectacular systems.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION
NIRSpec IFU observations of the two brightest Ly-Alpha nebulae kwnon around z>6 QSOS.
Note that a position angle of 45degrees is favourited. However, we will adapt our PA depending on when the observations will be scheduled.

Observation 1 - NIRSpec IFU observations of P323+21
NIRSpec IFU observation with G395H/F290LP.
The target is observed with 6 exposures in a cycling dither pattern.
NRSIRS2 has been selected for a better identification and removal of cosmic ray glitches.

Observation 2 - NIRSpec IFU observations of P231-20
NIRSpec IFU observation with G395H/F290LP.
The target is observed with 6 exposures in a cycling dither pattern.
NRSIRS2 has been selected for a better identification and removal of cosmic ray glitches.