---
id: 4065
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging  MIRI/MRS  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Patrick Ogle"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "9.14/0"
program_title: "Dusty Torus, Molecular Gas, Outflows, and Binary Nucleus in the Powerful Nearby Quasar Cygnus A"
type: "GO"
---
# 4065 - Dusty Torus, Molecular Gas, Outflows, and Binary Nucleus in the Powerful Nearby Quasar Cygnus A
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4065
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                 | Observing Template               | Science Target           |
| :-------------------- | :------------------------------- | :----------------------- |
| Cyg A IFU             | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy         | (1) CYGNUS-A             |
| Cyg A MRS             | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) CYGNUS-A-MRS         |
| Cyg A MRS OFF         | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) CYGNUS-A-MRS-OFF     |
| CygA_MIRI_IM          | MIRI Imaging                     | (1) CYGNUS-A             |
| CygA_MIRI_IM          | MIRI Imaging                     | (2) CYGNUS-A-MIRIM-OFF   |

---

## ABSTRACT

Cygnus A is the closest powerful radio galaxy, with a rich observational history. Its MIR-luminous quasar nucleus is enshrouded by dust, allowing detailed studies at NIR wavelengths of AGN fueling and feedback that would otherwise be hindered by the glare of the AGN. We propose a suite of JWST imaging and integral field spectroscopy with MIRI and NIRSpec in order to study the dusty molecular torus, quasar fueling and outflows, and to confirm or refute the presence of a binary supermassive black hole. We propose NIRSpec IFU and MIRI MRS observations to map the kinematics, temperature, and mass of molecular and ionized gas in the host galaxy. This will yield the kinematics and H2 temperature distribution in the 100 pc-scale disk that serves to fuel the AGN and a measurement of the warm H2 and dust mass in the unresolved 10-100pc scale torus. MIRI will also separate the AGN-heated dust continuum from the torus and NLR bi-cone, informing dusty torus models. Spectral maps in spectral lines from multiple ionization states will be used to map the mass, outflow rate, and kinetic power of AGN-driven outflows in relation to the location of the relativistic jet. The MIRI Imager will be used to isolate and measure the luminosity of the secondary nucleus, and to survey star formation throughout the host galaxy. Altogether, these observations will tell us (1) the amount of molecular gas available to fuel the dust-obscured quasar and its depletion timescale, (2) The impact of AGN and jet-driven outflows on the ISM and whether or not they are sufficient to eventually quench star formation, and (3) whether the secondary nucleus hosts an active SMBH.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We use the NIRSpec IFU G235H and G395H gratings in a single dithered pointing to cover the central 3x3 arcsec^2 of Cygnus A at 1.7-5 microns with a resolution of 100 km/s. Background observations are not necessary for this bright target. We don't need leakcals since there are no extremely bright stars in the MSA footprint.

The MIRI MRS observations use an extended source dither to better sample the PSF. We use all gratings to cover the full 5-27 micron spectrum. We link the source and dedicated off-background observations by an uninterruptible sequence special requirement.

MIRI imager observations in three filters (PAH 7.7, 12.8um, 10um continuum) use the SUB256 array to avoid saturating the primary nucleus.