---
id: 4078
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Katherine de Kleer"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "4.3/0"
program_title: "Mass-loss from Io’s volcanic atmosphere: A unique synergy with the Juno Io fly-by"
type: "GO"
---
# 4078 - Mass-loss from Io’s volcanic atmosphere: A unique synergy with the Juno Io fly-by
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4078
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                                   | Observing Template              | Science Target |
| :-------------------------------------- | :------------------------------ | :------------- |
| Io Atmosphere during Juno Fly-by        | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) IO         |
| Io Trailing Hemisphere MIRI MRS         | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) IO         |
| MIRI Background - Io Trailing 5x16      | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) BG-IO-N    |

## ABSTRACT

Material outgassed from Io's volcanic activity forms its tenuous SO2-based atmosphere, and ultimately becomes ionized to populate Jupiter's magnetosphere. However, the direct link between Io's volcanoes and the plasma in the jovian system remains unclear; the gas is not vented at sufficient velocities to escape Io, and the atmosphere should therefore act as a buffer, with mass-loss occurring from the upper bulk atmosphere rather than directly from plumes. The mechanics of this process, and the role of the atmosphere, remain elusive in part because every component of this system is highly time-variable so that linking different components observed at different times is nearly impossible. The Juno extended mission's close Io fly-by provides a truly unique opportunity to measure particles in the vicinity of Io in situ with Juno, while simultaneously mapping the temperature and column density of Io's dayside atmosphere with JWST. We propose to measure the SO2 gas in Io's atmosphere during the 1 hour surrounding Juno's closest approach, via the 7.3 micron gas band observed with MIRI/MRS. This gas band is clearly seen in JWST ERS observations of Io, which targeted Io's leading hemisphere. Fortuitously, the Juno fly-by takes place downstream of Io, measuring the lost matter, and also while Io's trailing hemisphere is visible to JWST. This hemispheric coverage complements the viewing geometry of the ERS data, and we will additionally observe Io across 5-6 microns to measure hemispheric differences in 5.4 and 5.95 micron bands that were newly detected in the ERS data of Io.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to obtain spectra with MIRI/MRS of Io's trailing hemisphere, simultaneous with the Juno close approach of Io on 2023-12-30 (08:35 UTC). Our observations are in two sequential parts: (1) We will observe Io in MRS Band C in time-series observing mode, for 60 minutes surrounding Juno's closest approach, at a cadence of 5 minutes. These observations will measure the variability of Io's atmosphere via the SO2 band at 7.3 um; (2) We will then obtain single exposures in MIRI's Band A and B. This completes the 5.0-7.5 um spectral coverage of newly-detected SO2 frost absorption bands on Io's trailing hemisphere, complementing ERS leading hemisphere data. Finally, we request a dedicated background exposure at the same jovian distance as Io is during the target observations.