---
id: 4082
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Michael Radica  Co-PI: Jake Taylor"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "6.69/0"
program_title: "Putting it all Together: Dynamics and Chemistry Probed Through Transmission Spectroscopy of a Cloud-Free Exoplanet"
type: "GO"
---
# 4082 - Putting it all Together: Dynamics and Chemistry Probed Through Transmission Spectroscopy of a Cloud-Free Exoplanet
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4082
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label     | Observing Template               | Science Target |
| :-------- | :------------------------------- | :------------- |
| Transit 1 | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) WASP-96    |

---

## ABSTRACT

It has long been recognized that the atmosphere composition of hot-Jupiters can inform us about their formation and migration processes. Recent studies have highlighted, however, that atmosphere composition is also significantly affected by three-dimensional dynamical effects, and photochemistry driven by irradiation from the host star. Assessing the interplay between these physical and chemical processes and obtaining robust and precise atmosphere composition measurements is inherently difficult, especially given the ubiquity of clouds in hot-Jupiter atmospheres. As one of the few confirmed cloud-free planets, WASP-96b is a prime target to study these effects. We propose the observation of one transit of the cloud-free hot-Jupiter WASP-96b with NIRSpec/G395H to complement the existing NIRISS/SOSS spectrum taken as part of the Early Release Observations program. The full 0.6-5.0µm transmission spectrum will allow us to robustly constrain the composition of WASP-96b's atmosphere, and particularly of carbon-bearing species which are not present in the SOSS waveband. This will in turn provide some of the tightest-yet constraints on the formation history of an exoplanet. Moreover, our observations will enable some of the first direct evidence for dynamics-induced chemistry in an exoplanet, as well as to probe the degree to which photochemistry sculpts its upper atmosphere; effects only observable in the NIRSpec waveband. As WASP-96b is one of the few confirmed cloud-free planets, it is the ideal target with which to study such a large ensemble of physical and chemical processes.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to observe ine transits of the inflated and cloud free hot-Jupiter WASP-96b with NIRSpec/G395H+F290LP. When combined with the existing NIRISS/SOSS transmission spectrum taken as part of the ERO program, we will be able to construct the full 0.6--5.0µm transmission spectrum for this planet. The SOSS observations confirm the cloud-free nature of the planet, as well as point to a solar-to-super-solar metallicity atmosphere. With NIRSpec/G395H, we wish to observe, for the first time, signatures of C-bearing species, which have no opacity in the SOSS waveband, in the atmosphere of WASP-96b, which provide insights into this planet's formation history. Furthermore, we wish to determine the extent to which wind-dirven and photochemical effects shape the composition of WASP-96b's atmosphere --- questions which are not possible to answer with SOSS alone. Our program will enable one of the most complete studies of the ensemble of processes governing the atmospheres of exoplanets that has ever been attempted to date.

The NIRSpec/G395H+F290LP observations are conducted in BOTS mode with 128 groups and 152 integrations. This provides coverage of the 2.4 hour transit, as well as sufficient baseline observations (with a 1:1 in-transit-to-out-of-transit ratio) before and after the transit. Target acquisition is carried out on the target itself with WATA and the F110W filter. The central TA pixel is saturated, however this should not effect the overall TA success, as was shown in the ERS program (#1366). The science exposure is not saturated anywhere on the detector. The total time ask is only 6.7 hours, including all overheads.