---
id: 4084
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/FS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Brittany Miles  Co-PIs: Sagnick Mukherjee and Jonathan Fortney"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "7.61/0"
program_title: "Probing the Depths: Disequilibrium Chemistry as a Tracer of Mixing Processes in Brown Dwarf Atmospheres"
type: "GO"
---
# 4084 - Probing the Depths: Disequilibrium Chemistry as a Tracer of Mixing Processes in Brown Dwarf Atmospheres
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4084
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template            | Science Target     |
| :---- | :---------------------------- | :----------------- |
|       | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (1) WISE1457+5815  |
|       | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (2) WISE0325+0831  |
|       | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (3) WISE2209-2734  |
|       | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (4) WISE0049+2151  |
|       | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (5) GL570D         |

*Note: The 'Label' column is empty in the provided table image.*

---

## ABSTRACT

Atmospheric mixing occurs in all substellar atmospheres, from free floating brown dwarfs, gas giant exoplanets, to the gas giants in our very own Solar System. This phenomenon influences the apparent chemistry in observed spectra from these objects. Changes created in the spectrum can also be utilized to measure atmospheric mixing as a function of radial depth, revealing the structure and locations convective and radiative zones within brown dwarf atmospheres. T-dwarfs are the ideal test beds for validating the state of the art models for constraining 1-D atmospheric mixing, due to their relative lack of photospheric clouds and existing ground-based near-infrared spectra. We will execute a program to observe 5 T-dwarfs with the fixed-slit F290LP/395H mode of JWST/NIRSpec for medium-resolution, 3 to 5 micron spectra to complete a sample of 7 T-dwarf with temperatures between 500K - 900K and surface gravities between log(g) 3.5 - 5.5. Using detections of methane, carbon monoxide, and carbon dioxide we will construct 1-dimensional atmospheric mixing profiles for each brown dwarf and understand how the size and extent of convective zones trend with effective temperature and surface gravity. Using the SNR 100 spectra we will also detect or place upper limits on other predicted disequilibrium species like hydrogen sulfide and phosphine.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We are requesting fixed-slit observations of 5 brown dwarfs to complete a sequence of 7 T-dwarfs for our science goal. We want higher resolution spectrum from the F290LP/395H mode of NIRSpec in fixed slit mode.

The targets are:

| Target           | J_MKO_mag | J_2MASS_mag | W2 mag | Estimated Acquisiton SNR (2MASS) | Real Acquistion SNR (Data) |
| :--------------- | :-------- | :---------- | :----- | :------------------------------- | :------------------------- |
| WISE 1457+5815   | 16.790    | 16.825      | 14.42  | 141.46                           | TBD                        |
| WISE 0325+0831   | 16.286    | 16.540      | 13.53  | 6.58                             | 8                          |
| WISE 2209+2734   | 16.550    | 16.980      | 13.86  | 108.4                            | TBD                        |
| WISE 0049+2151   | 16.44     | 16.716      | 13.03  | 120.99                           | TBD                        |
| GL570D           | 14.820    | 15.324      | 12.13  | 72.09                            | TBD                        |

(update March 13, 2024, due to the low SNR on acquistion for WISE 0325 we are changing the exposure times for the other BDs)
Four of the targets are below the saturation limits for NIRSpec WATA Acquisition and the mode should be used to center the target in the slit. WISE 1457 may likely have partial saturation using the SUB2048 subarray duing acquisition, but the SUB32 option produces too low of an SNR in the ETC. The models used in the ETC(notebook: 192529) are bright compared to reality at J-band so measured 2MASS J-band magnitudes were used to determine feasibility with the WATA acquisiton mode.

The brown dwarfs had their exposure times chosen by how long a certain molecular feature reaches a SNR 10 per pixel, which is why exposure time does not correlate with W2 magnitude.
We followed the NIRSpec detector and dithering strategies flowchart for each target. The bright targets require the ALLSLITS subarray and NRSRAPID readout to maintain meaninful group numbers within an exposure. The fainter targets use the FULL subarray and NRSIRS2RAPID readout. The specific subarray and readout setting per target are listed below.

| Target           | Subarray | Readout      |
| :--------------- | :------- | :----------- |
| WISE 1457+5815   | FULL     | NRSIRS2RAPID |
| WISE 0325+0831   | ALLSLITS | NRSRAPID     |
| WISE 2209+2734   | FULL     | NRSIRS2RAPID |
| WISE 0049+2151   | ALLSLITS | NRSRAPID     |
| G1570D           | ALLSLITS | NRSRAPID     |