---
id: 4087
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Caroline Huang  Co-PI: Massimo Marengo"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "2.82/0"
program_title: "Refining the Mira Distance Ladder with NIRCam Observations of M101"
type: "GO"
---
# 4087 - Refining the Mira Distance Ladder with NIRCam Observations of M101
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4087
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target      |
| :---- | :----------------- | :------------------ |
| 1     | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) SN-2011FE-FIELD |

---

## ABSTRACT

The recent tension between direct, model-independent measurements of the Hubble constant and the model-dependent values inferred from observations of the CMB has posed the strongest challenge to LambdaCDM in nearly 30 years. However, the burden of proof for a potentially groundbreaking discovery of new physics is high. Thus, alternative routes to the present measurements of the Hubble constant – which rely primarily on Cepheids and Tip of Red Giant Branch as intermediate distance indicators – must be explored in order to verify the current results and to fully understand the role of systematic uncertainties. Oxygen-rich Mira variables are luminous, ubiquitous, NIR and IR standard candles and present a particularly compelling path forward to studying the tension in the era of JWST. Here, we propose to use the high angular resolution and infrared coverage of NIRCam to simultaneously refine the Mira-based distance ladder and re-examine Cepheid crowding in the Type Ia Supernova host galaxy M101. This will allow us to verify the Cepheid results by using an independent ladder subject to different systematics, and by directly reanalyzing the Cepheids in M101. In this joint proposal consisting of one epoch of JWST NIRCam and three epochs of coordinated HST WFC3/IR and ACS observations, we will (1) de-blend the backgrounds of known Cepheids and Miras in M101, (2) improve Mira spectral type classification, and (3) study the effect of dust and mass loss on the Mira PLR. The three HST epochs will allow us to phase the single-epoch JWST observations to mean magnitude and produce Mira PLR in JWST bands for the first time.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to observe Cepheids and Mira candidates in the nearby SN Ia host galaxy, M101, with NIRCam in 6 filters (F115W, F150W, F182M, F277W, F356W, and F444W). The observations will be taken in a single epoch. We also request 3 coordinated orbits (split into 3 epochs) of HST observations, one prior to, and one after the JWST obsservations. For HST, we propose WFC3/IR observations (in F160W and F110W filters) and parallel ACS F555W observations to determine the phases of the Miras and Cepheids respectively at the time of the JWST observations.
These observations will allow us to produce Mira PLRs in the NIRCam filters, uncrowd the backgrounds of Cepheids and Miras previously observed in M101, improve our spectral classification of Miras, and reduce the uncertainty in the Hubble constant measurements of both methods.