---
id: 4090
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Coronagraphy"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Christian Ginski  Co-PI: Julien Girard"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "4.57/0"
program_title: "Follow the trace: Direct detection of a dynamically ejected young planet outside a circumbinary disk"
type: "GO"
---
# 4090 - Follow the trace: Direct detection of a dynamically ejected young planet outside a circumbinary disk
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4090
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                             | Observing Template              | Science Target      |
| :-------------------------------- | :------------------------------ | :------------------ |
| Science target observation roll 1 | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging    | (1) V-DG-CRA        |
| Science target observation roll 2 | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging    | (1) V-DG-CRA        |
| Reference Star                    | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging    | (3) UCAC4 267-178509 |

## ABSTRACT

Stellar multiple systems offer some of the most challenging environments for planet formation. Tidal interaction of stellar binaries with the planet-forming disks can lead to truncation, formation of cavities, warps and spirals. Dynamic interaction with forming planets can lead to their ejection from the system. Possibly explaining the population of free floating planets or (some) of the gas giants directly imaged at wide orbital separations. Recent observations of a young nearby binary system have revealed a unique opportunity to directly observe this process in action. A newly detected circumbinary disk in the system shows a clear signature of the recent ejection of a planet. Using the superior sensitivity of JWST and NIRCam from space we now propose to directly detect this planet. This will not only give us a unique laboratory to study dynamic star-planet-disk interaction but also will enable future studies of the atmosphere of a planet otherwise inaccessible to direct observations.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

In this program we aim to detect a young planet that was recently dynamically ejected from the inner parts of the DG CrA binary system. DG CrA is surrounded by a circumbinary disk, detected in near infrared scattered light. In these existing observations a radial tail-like feature is present crossing the circumbinary disk that is consistent with hydrodynamic models of ejected planets.
The putative planet should be a gas-giant with a current angular separation from the inner stellar binary of more than 2 arcsec.

We are proposing NIRCam coronagraphic observations with the F444W filter in the primary channel and the MASK335R coronagraph. We will execute two observations of the science target with the DEEP8 readout pattern at two different orientations of the telescope to enable angular differential imaging for increased contrast. Additionally we will observe one reference star for reference differential imaging. We will be sensitive to young planets down to 2 Saturn masses with this strategy. The total amount of time charged will be 4.6h.