---
id: 4102
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Pierre-Alexis Roy  Co-PI: Bjorn Benneke"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "13.38/0"
program_title: "Hydrogen-rich sub-Neptune or exposed Neptune mantle? Confirming the nature of the most favorable sub-Neptune for JWST emission spectroscopy"
type: "GO"
---
# 4102 - Hydrogen-rich sub-Neptune or exposed Neptune mantle? Confirming the nature of the most favorable sub-Neptune for JWST emission spectroscopy
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4102
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                  | Observing Template                 | Science Target |
| :--------------------- | :--------------------------------- | :------------- |
| TOI-824b-G395H-eclipsel | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) TOI-824    |
| TOI-824b-G395H-eclipsel | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) TOI-824    |

## ABSTRACT

Sub-Neptunes, despite being the most common outcome of planet formation, are still shrouded in mystery. Despite a decade of HST transmission observations of sub-Neptunes, it is still unclear whether sub-Neptunes form as rocky cores in hydrogen-rich envelopes and lose their envelopes to become super-Earths, or if these planets form independently as ice-rich bodies that host large amounts of water and volatiles. Recently, TOI-824b has been highlighted as a key target to tackle these questions, and as the most favorable target for emission spectroscopy with JWST. Recent Spitzer eclipse observations of the planet suggested that TOI-824b could be an exposed Neptune mantle, a planet with a volatile-rich envelope and little to no hydrogen.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Our observations are composed of time-series spectroscopic observations of two eclipses of the sub-Neptune exoplanet TOI-824b. For both eclipses, the observations will be performed with NIRSpec in BOTS mode using the G395H grism which will provide an emission spectrum of the planet in the near-infrared. Both observations must be completed in one continuous sequence, and are time-critical since the system must be observed as the exoplanet goes beyond the star TOI-824.