---
id: 4105
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Lili Alderson  Co-PI: Charlotte Fairman"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "14.22/0"
program_title: "Not Your Normal Neptune: Exploring the Chemical Processes at Play in HAT-P-11b"
type: "GO"
---
# 4105 - Not Your Normal Neptune: Exploring the Chemical Processes at Play in HAT-P-11b
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4105
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template            | Science Target |
| :---- | :---------------------------- | :------------- |
| 1     | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) HAT-P-11   |
| 2     | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) HAT-P-11   |

---

## ABSTRACT

Under equilibrium chemistry conditions, methane is expected to be the dominant carbon bearing species in Neptune-sized exoplanet atmospheres at temperatures below ~ 1000K for most C/O ratios and metallicities. However, observational searches for methane have thus far found only tentative hints of its presence. In order to diagnose the source of the missing methane in extrasolar atmospheres, it is important to be able to tease apart the competing effects of high-metallicity equilibrium and low-metallicity disequilibrium chemical processes, both of which can reduce the molecule's expected abundance.

HAT-P-11b, the only Neptune-mass exoplanet with a sub-solar metallicity measurement, is one of the few exoplanets with potential evidence of methane. However, Spitzer observations show relatively flat transit depths in the IR where methane should have significant contributing opacity. Given its intriguingly low metallicity combined with its size and temperature, the ~800K HAT-P-11b is a prime target to examine and perhaps disentangle the chemical and dynamical processes occurring within atmospheres on the CO - CH4 transition. We propose to obtain the 3-5 micron transmission spectrum of HAT-P-11b in order to definitively measure the C/O and [M/H] of the atmosphere and test the validity of current measurements, unraveling the mystery of the missing methane.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will observe 2 primary transits of HAT-P-11b using the NIRSpec G395H grism in BOTS mode to obtain spectra from 2.87-5.27 microns.

Each single transit observation will consist of 3 groups per integration, with 5218 integrations covering the entire transit duration (2.36 hours), and additional pre- and post-transit baseline to characterise the baseline stellar flux and any instrumental ramp effects (5.23 hours total). When including instrumental and observatory overheads, this results in a total charge time of 14.22 hours.

Each time series observation must occur during, and cover a full transit event of HAT-P-11b, and therefore must begin within a specified phase window of the orbital period. We have specified a 1 hour window during which the observation can begin to allow for scheduling and adequate baseline

Given the brightness of the target star, we will perform target acquisition on a 2MASS source within the 70 arcsecond splitting distance. This strategy will use the WATA method with the SUB32 subarray and CLEAR filter with 3 groups.