---
id: 4106
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Erica Nelson  Co-PI: Ivo Labbe"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "13.98/0"
program_title: "Extremely massive galaxies in the early universe: A challenge to Lambda-CDM?"
type: "GO"
---
# 4106 - Extremely massive galaxies in the early universe: A challenge to Lambda-CDM?
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4106
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label      | Observing Template            | Science Target       |
| :--------- | :---------------------------- | :------------------- |
| 38094u2    | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (9) msa-cat-v2       |
| 35300u1    | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (9) msa-cat-v2       |
| RC2        | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (10) msa-cat-14mar25 |
| 2859u2     | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (9) msa-cat-v2       |

---

## ABSTRACT

One of the most remarkable findings from JWST's first month of public data was the discovery of six galaxies at 7<z<10 with extremely red colors implying stellar masses so large they challenge early galaxy assembly models in a standard LCDM cosmology (Labbe+22, Boylan-Kolchin+22). Namely, there are no halos massive enough to contain these galaxies at these redshifts, even if ALL baryons in them were converted to stars. The seemingly more likely possibility is that the stellar mass estimates are too high because the broad-band photometry is dominated by bright emission lines. Interestingly, this solution requires formation times of <10Myr. The first spectroscopic follow-up of one of these candidate massive galaxies has revealed third equally exciting and unanticipated solution: the object is revealed to be a low-luminosity quasar hosting a Milky-way sized black hole at z=5.6. Any result here is exciting: it is a win-win scenario. Here, we propose JWST/NIRSpec spectroscopy that will yield precise redshifts and constrain the emission line contributions that could be boosting the broadband NIRCam fluxes and biasing M$_{\star}$ estimates. The proposed combination of low- and medium-resolution spectra offers the only efficient and comprehensive test of the masses and redshifts of these objects. Whether this program confirms extreme stellar masses, finds more exotic Milky-way black holes, or reveals that galaxies can form in <10Myr, it will pave the way for detailed studies of uncharted discovery space in future JWST cycles.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This program will obtain Nirspec spectroscopy of 5 galaxies with log(M)>10 at z=7-10 from Labbe et al. 2022. This will be done in three MSA pointings in the CEERS field. For each source, we will take two NIRSpec spectra: one in Prism R100, one in G395M. PRISM exposure times are set by the requirement of SNR resolution element > 3 which allowing the measurement of aa redshifted continuum break. G395M exposure times are set by the requirement of detecting any line with equivalent width greater than 100Angstroms at a signal to noise of 5. These integration times range from 1-4 hours and result in a total on source integration time of 8 hours. 20-30 additional targets will be used to fill the remainder of available MSA real estate prioritized as: log(M) < 10 galaxies from Labbe et al. 2022, HST-dark galaxies, galaxies with z>2 in order of decreasing F150W-F444W color.