---
id: 4111
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Katherine Suess"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "48.02/29.43"
program_title: "Medium bands, Mega Science: Spatially-resolved R~15 spectrophotometry of 50,000 sources at z=0.3-12"
type: "GO"
---
# 4111 - Medium bands, Mega Science: Spatially-resolved R~15 spectrophotometry of 50,000 sources at z=0.3-12
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4111
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target        |
| :---- | :----------------- | :-------------------- |
| 1     | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) ABELL2744         |
| 2     | NIRCam Imaging     | (2) ABELL2744-PREIMG-REPEAT2 |

## ABSTRACT

Early JWST observations have already catalyzed a paradigm shift in our understanding of the distant universe. However, many of these surprising discoveries are based on broad-band photometry, which can often permit contradictory physical interpretations. Here we propose to break these broad-band degeneracies and move towards a new physical understanding of the distant universe by leveraging the transformative power of medium-band imaging to efficiently map both stellar continuum and nebular line emission for large, unbiased galaxy samples. By observing the well-studied Abell 2744 field with all available medium-band NIRCam filters, we will map strong emission features from the cluster itself through the era of reionization. We will simultanously probe multiple emission lines to directly map both star formation and dust obscuration and chart the growth of galaxies across >10 Gyr of cosmic history. Our data will also yield high-fidelity measurements of photometric redshifts (~3x improvement over existing data) and stellar masses (~2x improvement). Lensing from the cluster boosts our effective integration time by up to a factor of 10 and allows us to map emission lines at the highest possible resolution with JWST. Our proposed science can only be done with medium-band imaging: grism is not sensitive enough for continuum emission, and has difficulty disentangling spectral and spatial variations; meanwhile, spectroscopy is subject to small sample sizes and slit losses. This public dataset will add to the legacy value of JWST Cycle 1 observations of Abell 2744 and create the ideal field in which to refine our physical models of the distant universe.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

**Strategy & filters:** we propose a 4-pointing gap-filled NIRCam mosaic of the Abell 2744 field using all available medium-band filters. Abell 2744 already has existing NIRCam data in the F115W, F150W, F200W, F277W, F356W, F410M, and F444W filters from the GO-UNCOVER program. We exactly replicate the mosaic settings of GO-UNCOVER to ensure uniform coverage of both broad and medium-band imaging across the field. We require 7 filter sets to cover all remaining NIRCam red-side medium bands F250M, F300M, F335M, F360M, F430M, F460M, and F480M. We pair these with the four blue-side medium bands F140M, F162M, F182M, and F210M. We additionally add F070W and double-depth imaging in F090W, which were not observed by GO-UNCOVER. These blue bands can be used for dropout science at z>5; testing shows that this strategy provides more accurate and precise EAZY photo-zs than doubling up on any of our blue medium-band filters or observing F090W alone.

**Depth:** Our required depth is set by our primary science goals of (a) detecting emission lines via medium-band flux excesses, and (b) detecting stellar continuum emission in line-free regions. We quantify our sensitivity to emission lines using the Jaguar catalog of simulated galaxies (Williams+18). Given our 5sigma imaging depths from the ETC, we expect to reliably detect color excesses due to Halpha emission to limiting SFRs of ~0.3Msun/yr at z~2 and ~2Msun/yr at z~5. We additionally quantify the expected improvement in photo-zs from this program by running EAZY on both the public UNCOVER catalog and a catalog where we add our proposed observations at our proposed depth, following the best-fit broad-band model of each galaxy. The resulting photo-zs are expected to be to be 2.7x more accurate from 0.3 <z< 12 (3.0x more accurate at 0.3 <z< 8.5, where F430M probes Hb+[OIII]), and for 1sigma photo-z uncertainties to decrease by 3.5x.

**Coordinated parallels:** We propose to use NIRISS in parallel to add additional imaging bands to the existing deep GO-UNCOVER parallel field. This strategy builds on JWST's existing investment in this field and allows us to expand the area over which we can do our proposed science. Photo-z analysis shows that we gain the most constraining power by observing F090W*2, F277W, F140M, F158M, F430M, and F480M; therefore, we request these observations in parallel to NIRCam.