---
id: 4116
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Karen Meech"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "17.39/0"
program_title: "Close up samples of Exoplanetary Systems: Characterizing the next Interstellar Object"
type: "GO, Non-Disruptive ToO"
---
# 4116 - Close up samples of Exoplanetary Systems: Characterizing the next Interstellar Object
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4116
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label               | Observing Template       | Science Target  |
| :------------------ | :----------------------- | :-------------- |
| NIRSpec ISO         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) ISO-23.5MAG |
| NIRSpec ISO-Backgro | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) ISO-23.5MAG |
| NIRCam ISO          | NIRCam Imaging           | (1) ISO-23.5MAG |

---

## ABSTRACT

One of the most significant recent findings in astronomy has been the discovery of two interstellar objects (ISOs) passing through our solar system. The two ISOs discovered to date are strikingly different: 2I/Borisov appeared cometary, while 1I/`Oumuamua looked asteroidal with characteristics that still are not fully explained, but could have been with the JWST program proposed here.

A detailed look at ISOs will provide unparalleled nearby access to the chemical and physical conditions of exoplanet formation. Comets and some asteroids are the largely unaltered remnants of the planetary accretion process, tracing both dust and volatiles - H20, CO, CO2 - in the disk. JWST will reveal detailed information about ISOs that we cannot obtain from the ground, such as size and albedo, properties of solid ices and surface materials, and simultaneous measurements of water, CO and CO2.

Accordingly, with this 17.4 hr program, we request one ToO (>14 d) to characterize an ISO discovered in Cycle 2. The observing program will depend on whether the next ISO is like 2I/Borisov or 1I/`Oumuamua. IR observations will allow us to estimate an albedo and size. NIRSpec spectra will detect H20, CO, CO2, and water ice bands, while NIRCam deep imaging will search for faint coma

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We have designed a non-disruptive ToO program, with a response time set to >14 days, the minimum value for a non-disruptive ToO.

The NRSIRS2RAPID readout mode was chosen for the NIRSpec PRISM observations to maximize the SNR in a short amount of time. For the medium resolution filters, NRSRAPID readout mode is chosen to maximize the S/N and to stay within the Data Volume Limit. To mitigate the effects of detector cosmetics we will use a 4-point nodding pattern. In the APT, we have implemented the WATA target acquisition mode and used the NIRSpec target_acq template in the ETC to confirm that the signal-to-noise is sufficient for WATA. However, if the GTO and ERS programs show that chance acquisition of background objects is a problem then we will use NONE as the target acquisition mode.

Deep NIRCam imaging with the F210M filter will be used to search for faint coma. We will use 2 sub-pixel dithers and the MEDIUM8 readout pattern