---
id: 4126
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Chloe Fisher"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "19.82/0"
program_title: "TOI-125: Comparative Atmospheric Chemistry Within One System"
type: "GO"
---
# 4126 - TOI-125: Comparative Atmospheric Chemistry Within One System
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4126
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label             | Observing Template             | Science Target |
| :---------------- | :----------------------------- | :------------- |
| TOI-125 b transit | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) TOI-125    |
| TOI-125 b transit | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) TOI-125    |
| TOI-125 c transit | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) TOI-125    |
| TOI-125 c transit | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) TOI-125    |

## ABSTRACT

"Characterising and comparing exoplanets from the same system can provide valuable constraints for formation and migration models. In particular, by measuring the C/O ratio of a planet with respect to that of its host star, one can draw conclusions about its formation location and whether it has migrated across the snow and ice lines in the protoplanetary disk. A recent discovery from the TESS mission, TOI-125, contains three sub-Neptunes on relatively close-in orbits. In addition, the comparable radius and gravity of the planets provide a unique opportunity to study similar objects formed in the same disk. We propose to use JWST/NIRSpec in BOTS mode with the G395H disperser to observe a single transit of TOI-125 b and c. Mock retrievals showed these planets can be well-characterised with only one transit in this mode, providing a valuable comparison within this system. Observing and analysing these planets will help us to constrain likely formation-migration scenarios for this system. Although we do not propose to observe TOI-125 d here, since it is more challenging for transmission spectroscopy, it could prove beneficial to return to this planet in a future cycle."

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

"We will observe one transit of TOI-125 b and c using NIRSpec in BOTS mode. We will use the G395H disperser and the default S1600A1 slit. We will use the F290LP filter with the SUB2048 subarray with NRSRAPID mode.
The observations must cover the full transit, along with sufficient out-of-transit baseline before and after. To obtain this, we will take half the transit time before and after. This leads to a visit duration of 7.67 and 7.66 hours for planets b and c, respectively."