---
id: 4147
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Samuel Crowe  Co-PI: Jonathan Tan"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "3.93/1.43"
program_title: "A Census of High- and Low-Mass Star Formation in a Galactic Center Molecular Cloud"
type: "GO"
---
# 4147 - A Census of High- and Low-Mass Star Formation in a Galactic Center Molecular Cloud
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4147
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                      | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :------------------------- | :----------------- | :------------- |
| NIRCAM 1 field             | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) SGR-C      |
| NIRCAM 1 field Repeat of Observation 11 | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) SGR-C      |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose JWST-NIRCam observations of the Galactic Center molecular cloud Sagittarius C, in particular the massive protostar G359.44-0.102 and its surrounding region, in order to take a census of its star formation activity and test theoretical models of massive star formation in this extreme environment. The wider region has already been observed with SOFIA-FORCAST at 25 and 37 microns, as well as Spitzer and Herschel. These data have enabled candidate high-mass protostars to be identified and characterized, but only at quite limited spatial resolution. The proposed JWST observations have three goals: 1) improved characterization of the identified massive protostellar candidates, in particular the main source G359.44-0.102, including outflow cavity geometries, dust content and shock/ionization structures. For example, scattered light from dust is expected to arise from the outflow cavities, thus constraining their structure, illumination and dust content; 2) probe the spatial distribution and number density of the lower-mass YSO populaton to place more direct constraints on the IMF and star formation rate and efficiency in Sgr C. The number of massive protostellar candidates in Sgr C predicts a much larger quantity of lower-mass protostars, which we aim to identify and characterize; 3) study the connection between high- and low-mass protostars to test massive star formation theories.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This programme will observe the Sgr C molecular cloud in the Galactic Center region with NIRCam to characterise the massive protostars, the protocluster environment, and the stellar content down to the substellar regime. It will use a single pointing with a 6 dither pattern and observe in three SW plus LW filters pairs (F162M+F150W2 plus F405N+F444W, F182M plus F470N+F444W, F200W plus F356W). These filters will reveal the stellar population, spatial distribution, and outflow activity in the regions.
No extra special calibrations are needed.