---
id: 4181
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging  MIRI/LRS  NIRSpec/FS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Ryan Chornock"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "23.21/0"
program_title: "Infrared Spectroscopy of a Neutron Star Merger with JWST"
type: "GO, Disruptive ToO"
---
# 4181 - Infrared Spectroscopy of a Neutron Star Merger with JWST
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4181
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                               | Observing Template             | Science Target  |
| :---------------------------------- | :----------------------------- | :-------------- |
| Epoch 1 -- NIRSPEC's pectroscopy    | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (1) KILONOVA    |
| Epoch 1 MIRI Spectroscopy           | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) KILONOVA    |
| Epoch 2 -- NIRSPEC's pectroscopy    | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (1) KILONOVA    |
| Epoch 2 -- MIRI Spectroscopy        | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) KILONOVA    |
| Epoch 3 -- NIRSPEC low-res spectroscopy | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (1) KILONOVA    |
| Epoch 3 -- MIRI Imaging             | MIRI Imaging                   | (1) KILONOVA    |

---

## ABSTRACT

This proposal seeks to leverage the transformative capabilities of JWST to produce a high-quality spectroscopic dataset for one optical counterpart (kilonova) associated with a neutron star merger (NS-NS or NS-BH) detected by Advanced LIGO/Virgo/KAGRA in their observing run O4. The observations consist of three epochs from 5 to 20 days after the merger: (1) and (2) NIRSPEC + MIRI spectroscopy; and (3) NIRSPEC spectroscopy + MIRI imaging.
These observations will: (i) obtain spectroscopy of a sufficiently high SNR and broad wavelength coverage to detect and identify as many spectral features as possible; (ii) measure the ejection velocities in the different ejecta components, and (iii) precisely measure the infrared spectral energy distribution into the mid-IR to constrain the potential presence of emission components beyond those dominating in the near-IR.
These data will detect and characterize the emission from multiple ejecta components predicted by numerical simulations of neutron star mergers as part of a multimessenger investigation of the merger process. We waive our proprietary rights to enable the whole community to benefit from these data.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This proposal will obtain three epochs of observations of the optical counterpart to a compact object merger containing a neutron star (NS-NS or NS-BH), detected as a gravitational wave source by LIGO/Virgo/Kagra during run O4.
There are six observation sequences, arranged into three epochs:

Epoch 1 (as soon as possible after the merger, 5 or fewer days after merger)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
This requires a disruptive ToO.
Two components grouped together:
NIRSPEC medium-resolution spectroscopy with the S200A1 fixed slit and G140M/F100LP, G235M/F170LP, and G395M/F290LP grisms
MIRI low-resolution slit spectroscopy

Epoch 2 (~10 days after merger)
-----------------------------
4-6 days after the first epoch.
Two components grouped together:
NIRSPEC medium-resolution spectroscopy with the S200A1 fixed slit and G140M/F100LP, G235M/F170LP, and G395M/F290LP grisms
MIRI low-resolution slit spectroscopy

Epoch 3 (~20 days after merger)
-----------------------------
8-12 days after the second epoch
NIRSPEC low-resolution slit spectroscopy with the S200A1 fixed slit and PRISM
MIRI imaging with F560W and F770W filters