---
id: 4195
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Chloe Fisher"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "24.72/0"
program_title: "Constraining the Oxidation State of the Super-Earth TOI-1685 b"
type: "GO"
---
# 4195 - Constraining the Oxidation State of the Super-Earth TOI-1685 b
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4195
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                 | Observing Template              | Science Target |
| :-------------------- | :------------------------------ | :------------- |
| TOI-1685b transit 1   | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) TOI-1685   |
| TOI-1685b transit 2   | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) TOI-1685   |
| TOI-1685b transit 3   | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) TOI-1685   |
| TOI-1685b transit 4   | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) TOI-1685   |
| TOI-1685b transit 4   | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) TOI-1685   |

---

## ABSTRACT

Characterising the atmosphere of a rocky exoplanet can provide valuable insight into the interior conditions of the planet. In particular, by constraining the ratio of CO2 and CO abundances, we can infer the oxidation state (or oxygen fugacity) of the planet's mantle. In the Solar System, their exists a relationship between planet mass and oxidation state, with larger planets being more oxidized. By constraining the oxidation state of a super-Earth exoplanet, we can determine if novel interior dynamics are operating, contrasting what we know from our Solar System. The super-Earth TOI-1685 b is on an ultra-short period orbit around an M dwarf, and has a low density compared with other similar targets, making it ideal for atmospheric characterisation. We propose to use JWST/NIRSpec in BOTS mode with the G395H disperser to observe four transits of TOI-1685 b. Mock retrievals showed this planets can be well-characterised in this mode, providing valuable constraints on its oxidation state. Due to the lack of super-Earths in the Solar System versus their prevalence around other stars, the information we learn about TOI-1685 b is likely to be widely applicable to thousands of other exoplanets.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will observe four transits of TOI-1685 b using NIRSpec in BOTS mode. We will use the G395H disperser and the default S1600A1 slit. We will use the F290LP filter with the SUB2048 subarray with NRSRAPID mode.

The observations must cover the full transit, along with sufficient out-of-transit baseline before and after. To obtain this, we will take half the transit time before and after. This leads to a visit duration of 6.18 hours for each transit.