---
id: 4198
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Bryce Bolin"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "8.22/0"
program_title: "Multi-Cycle monitoring of the volatile evolution of a returning planetesimal as it approaches perihelion"
type: "GO"
---
# 4198 - Multi-Cycle monitoring of the volatile evolution of a returning planetesimal as it approaches perihelion
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4198
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                       | Observing Template        | Science Target                  |
| :-------------------------- | :------------------------ | :------------------------------ |
| NIRSpecIFU-UN271            | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (1) C2014UN271-NEEDS-OFFSET    |
| NIRSpecIFU-UN271OFFSE       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (2) C2014UN271-OFFSET           |
| NIRCam-SW1/LW1-UN271        | NIRCam Imaging            | (3) C2014UN271-NO-OFFSET        |
| NIRSpecIFU-UN271            | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (4) C2014UN271-NEEDS-OFFSET-TRY2 |
| NIRSpecIFU-UN271OFFSE       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (6) C2014UN271-OFFSET-TRY2      |
| NIRCam-SW1/LW1-UN271        | NIRCam Imaging            | (5) C2014UN271-NO-OFFSET-TRY2   |
| NIRSpecIFU-UN271            | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (7) C2014UN271-NEEDS-OFFSET-TRY3 |
| NIRSpecIFU-UN271OFFSE       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (9) C2014UN271-OFFSET-TRY3      |
| NIRCam-SW1/LW1-UN271        | NIRCam Imaging            | (8) C2014UN271-NO-OFFSET-TRY3   |

## ABSTRACT

The 140 km diameter Oort Cloud comet C/2014 UN271 is likely one of the original planetesimals that formed in the protoplanetary disk and will reach a perihelion distance of ~10 au in 2031. Recent NIRSpec observations of UN271 when it was 18.2 au from the Sun show that it produces considerable quantities of CO2 and CO with icy grains. While CO can be active at ~18 au, the detection of CO2, normally active inside 13 au, implies that the comet is hyperactive and may possess other cometary volatiles such as NH3 and amorphous water ice which will become active or crystallize as the comet nears the Sun within the next couple of years. We propose a small multi-Cycle program of 24.66 h with JWST to take near-simultaneous observations of UN271 with NIRSpec and NIRCam to observe the evolution of its volatiles and ices over the next few years. The instruments will be complimentary with NIRSpec providing detailed spectral information the comets near-nucleus coma and NIRCam providing wide-field mapping of volatiles and ices. We will observe UN271 once per cycle with the first observation starting in June 2024 at the end of Cycle 2 when the comet is ~16.3 au from the Sun and ending in June 2026 during Cycle 4 when the comet is 14 au from the Sun. Combined with public NIRSpec data, our observations will provide coverage of the comet over a ~4 au range during which different cometary volatiles may become active such as NH3 and water ice can crystallize. Observing the evolution of UN271 will provide groundbreaking and exciting constraints on the the volatile contents and evolution of the original planetesimals and protoplanetary disk.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Our science program will consist of three visits at a cadence of once per Cycle for the next three Cycles 2-4. The first visit will occur at the end of Cycle 2 in June 2024, the second visit will occur at the end of Cycle 3 in June 2025 and the third visit will occur at the end of Cycle 4 in June 2026. The total time of one of our combined NIRSPec, NIRSpec offset and NIRCam visits is 8.22. We will be observing our target for three visits, once per Cycle for the next three Cycles for a total request of 24.66 h. Our observations will not need the Background Limited special requirement as the difference between the SNR assuming a high background and the low background at the sky location of UN271 during our expected date of observations is very small. We will request moving object support since our target is moving 10 arcsec/h, well below the rate of motion limit of JWST.

For our NIRSpec observations, we will use Prism/CLEAR mode and covers an area of 3 arcsec x 3 arcsec centered on the comet at a resolution of 0.1 arcseconds. We will observe using the NRS readout mode taking 21 groups/integrations, 1 integration per exposure with a 4-point dither with a total of 4 integrations for a total exposure time of ~3605 seconds. This will provide a spectrum in each spaxel that has SNR of at least >30 per spectral bin in our relevant wavelength region. The total duration of our observations is ~8,200 s or 2.3 h. We will not use a target acquisition method because the ephemeris uncertainty of the comet is less than 1 arcsecond so the comet's optocenter will fit comfortably within the 3 arcsec field of view of the NIRSpec IFU. We will observe our target with non-sidereal tracking. We will use offset observations for background removal and shadow observations if they become available.

For our NIRCam observations, we will use a single NIRCam module: Module B. We will use an offset of -55 arcsec, -35 arcsec to place our target in the center of NIRCam short wavelength detector B4. The angular size of short wavelength detector B4 is 64 arcsec x 64 arcsec. Thus our target, which is ~10 arcsec in size, will fit comfortably inside detector B4. We will use 6 dithers in INTRAMODULEX mode for flat field removal, PSF sampling, and avoidance of detector artifacts and bad pixels. The 6 INTRAMODULEX dithers will provide full coverage within a ~50 arcsec x 50 arcsec area that the comet will comfortably fit inside. The long wavelength channel will have perfect overlap within this region. Each NIRCam visit will consist of 8 sequences and 16 different filters. We will use the BRIGHT1 and RAPID readout modes.