---
id: 4201
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Merel van 't Hoff"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "15.4/0"
program_title: "The Butterfly Effect: Determining the distribution of ices across a young disk to constrain planet formation"
type: "GO"
---
# 4201 - The Butterfly Effect: Determining the distribution of ices across a young disk to constrain planet formation
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4201
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label             | Observing Template                   | Science Target           |
| :---------------- | :----------------------------------- | :----------------------- |
| MIRI science      | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy  | (1) IRAS04302-MIRI       |
| MIRI background   | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy  | (2) MIRI-BACKGROUND      |
| NIRSpec           | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy             | (3) IRAS04302-NIRSPEC    |

## ABSTRACT

Young disks (Class I) orbiting nascent stars are the birthplaces of planets. In order to link the elemental composition of exoplanets, that JWST will provide in plenty, to their formation history, one needs to determine the chemical composition of both the gas and solids across the disk. With ALMA a stunning progress has been made to map the gas content of disks, but the distribution and compositions of ices remains poorly known. We aim to target IRAS 04302 (the Butterfly Star) with MIRI MRS and NIRSpec IFU, to map the major carbon and oxygen carriers in the ice phase: CO, CO2, CH4 and H2O. The exact edge-on geometry and large size makes this young disk uniquely suited to unveil for the first time the vertical and radial structure of the ices. We will obtain the radial and vertical location of the CO, CO2, H2O snow surfaces, which are setting the C/O ratio of the gas and dust. These observations will demonstrate the impact that JWST will have on the studies of planet formation.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We target a Class I protostar IRAS-04302 with MIRI MRS in full spectral coverage of 5-28 micron, and with NIRSpec IFU in high spectral resolution grating/filter combination: G395H/F290LP and G235H/F170LP. This spectral setup covers H2O, CO2, CO, CH4 features, essential for determining the C/O ratio of the ice mantle.
17 groups per sub-band, per dither, per mosaic tile is spent with MIRI (in slow readout mode) resulting in total science time of 4.1 hrs, and 10 groups per grating, per dither, per mosaic tile on NIRSpec resulting in 2.92 hrs of science observation. For MIRI a mosaic of 3x1 is selected to cover the entire extent of the disk and the inner envelope. Since Spitzer images show more exteded emission at 3.6 micron compared to 5.8 micron, we use a 3x3 mosaic for NIRSpec to maximize spatial information. A 4-point dither is used for both instruments to maximize the spatial and spectral sampling. A dedicated sky background is targeted with MIRI.