---
id: 4212
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 3
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging  NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Larry Bradley"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "10.06/0"
program_title: "Unveiling the Most Distant Lensed Arc at z~10"
type: "GO"
---
# 4212 - Unveiling the Most Distant Lensed Arc at z~10
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4212
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label   | Observing Template                 | Science Target          |
| :------ | :--------------------------------- | :---------------------- |
| NIRCam  | NIRCam Imaging                     | (1) SPT0615-57          |
| NIRSpec | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (4) SPT0615 full MSA14  |

## ABSTRACT

JWST was designed to study distant galaxies in the early universe. It has already discovered many, but most are too faint and small to be studied in detail. To understand early galaxies, we must understand the small star clusters (r < 100 pc) within. Gravitational lensing has delivered a few precious highly-magnified galaxies out to z ~ 6 that reveal small star clusters in the early universe with Hubble and now JWST.

Here we propose the first detailed study of a galaxy at z = 10, observed just 500 Myr after the Big Bang, well before reionization was complete. SPT0615-JD is the brightest z ~ 10 galaxy known, magnified to AB mag 25 and stretched to an arc 2.5" long, revealing structures as small as r ~ 25 pc in Hubble imaging.

We propose JWST NIRCam imaging to measure the colors of these star clusters for the first time, yielding age and mass estimates, while resolving still smaller star clusters with radii < 10 pc.

We also propose NIRSpec G395H high-resolution R~3000 spectroscopy in spatially resolved segments of the galaxy with MSA slitlets covering the length of the arc. For the first time, we will resolve the [OII] doublet in a galaxy during reionization, yielding its gas density in multiple locations. We will resolve and measure line widths, revealing outflows that may have enabled early galaxies to reionize the universe. We expect to detect [OIII] 4363Å enabling a direct metallicity measurement when combined with [OIII] 5007Å that may also be detected in this proposal cycle depending on the redshift we measure.

These data will also deliver ancillary science on many more high-redshift galaxies magnified by the exceptional lensing cluster SPT0615-57.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This proposal will obtain NIRCam and NIRSpec observations of a candidate z~10 galaxy, SPT0615-JD, strongly lensed into a bright arc. We acquire NIRCam imaging in 8 filters (F090W, F115W, F150W, F200W, F277W, F356W, F410M, and F444W) using the MEDIUM8 readout pattern with 7 groups and 1 integration. We use the INTRAMODULEBOX dither pattern with 4 dithers to fill the gaps in the short wavelength detectors and to maximize the deep area with full exposure time. The exposure time is 2920.4 seconds (0.8 hours) per filter, giving a total of 3.2 hours. NIRCam roll angles are restricted (within the current planning window Sept 5 – Oct 20) to ensure that the primary target is not impacted by diffraction spikes from 3 nearby relatively bright stars. The NIRCam imaging data will be obtained at least 60 days prior to the NIRSpec data. Using this strategy we can place slits on any candidate z~10 counterimage and new high-redshift galaxy candidates. The NIRCam imaging will also serve as pre-imaging for the NIRSpec observations.

We obtain NIRSpec MOS high-resolution spectroscopy (G395H) of SPT0615-JD to cover wavelengths between 2.9-5.3 microns. We use a standard 3-shutter slit with 3 nods and two MSA configurations to mitigate artifacts (e.g., snowballs) and provide dithering. For the SPT0615-JD galaxy, we use at least 5 shutters to cover to 2.5 arcsec long arc, plus additional nearby shutters to be used for background estimation. We use the NRSIRS2 readout pattern with 10 groups and 2 integrations. We require the NIRSpec MSA prism data to be obtained at an APA between 134°–136°. This narrow range is required to place the multi-shutter MSA slitlet along the z~10 arc (2.5 arcsec long). An APA of 314°–316° (a 180° flip) is not available for this target.

The first MSA configuration obtains complete spectra of SPT0615-JD (except for the detector gap), crucially preserving the red end of the spectrum.

The second MSA configuration covers the cluster core for more ancillary targets, while preserving the SPT0615-JD spectrum out to 4.926µm, or rest-frame 4399Å assuming z = 10.2, for full exposure time on faint lines including H 4340 and [OIII] 4363.

Relaxed or unconstrained source centering constraints allowed for more ancillary targets, most of which are extended (so precise centering is not critical). Ancillary targets were added automatically and then manually by editing the configurations.