---
id: 4217
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "MIRI/LRS  NIRSpec/FS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Melissa Shahbandeh  Co-PIs: Chris Ashall, Peter Hoeflich, and Eddie Baron"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "9.48/0"
program_title: "Probing Early Dust Formation in the Universe via Stripped-Envelope Supernovae"
type: "GO, Non-Disruptive ToO"
---
# 4217 - Probing Early Dust Formation in the Universe via Stripped-Envelope Supernovae
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4217
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label     | Observing Template               | Science Target |
| :-------- | :------------------------------- | :------------- |
| NIRSPEC   | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy  | (2) 2024ahv    |
| MIRI/LRS  | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) 2024ahv    |
| NIRSPEC   | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy  | (2) 2024ahv    |
| MIRI/LRS  | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) 2024ahv    |
| NIRSPEC   | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy  | (2) 2024ahv    |
| MIRI/LRS  | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) 2024ahv    |

---

## ABSTRACT

Details of dust formation in the early Universe are unknown. While AGB stars are considered to be primary dust producers, the first dust in the local Universe may have formed before AGB stars had time to make it. Core-collapse supernovae (CCSNe) are expected to play an important role in dust production since their current formation rate predominates all other types of supernovae. To date, the community has been fixated on dust formation in CCSNe with intact hydrogen-rich envelopes. However, stripped-envelope supernovae (SESNe) come from the death of massive, shorter-lived stars, and are therefore one of the earliest possible sources of early Universe cosmic dust. We request 16.58 hr of non-disruptive ToO time to obtain an NIR+MIR spectral time-series of one SESN at four key epochs between ~70-300 days past-maximum luminosity to investigate: 1) the formation of CO at ~70 days past-maximum, 2) the formation of SiO precipitated by CO cooling (or rapid adiabatic cooling) at ~100 days, 3) the condensation of SiO to dust at ~200 days, 4) the growth of dust and obtaining its temperature at ~300 days, and 5) constraining the ejecta mass. The third and fourth epochs will allow us to determine the location of the dust and understand its origin, whether in-situ, in the circumstellar medium (CSM), or pre-existing in a molecular cloud. Following a SESN all the way from the formation of dust precursors CO and SiO through the dust formation phases will provide unprecedented insight into the deaths of a range of massive stars and how they might contribute to the total dust budget of the ISM.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We request a non-disruptive ToO trigger, to obtain a spectroscopic sequence of one stripped-envelope supernova from ~70-300 d past maximum light. Data will be taken at four epochs 70, 100, 200, and 300 d. At each epoch, we will use the low resolution spectral mode on MIRI, and the CLEAR/PRISM mode with the S400A1 slit on NIRSpec.