---
id: 4225
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Takuma Izumi"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "3.25/0"
program_title: "First spatially resolved characterization of the warm molecular torus in the Circinus galaxy"
type: "GO"
---
# 4225 - First spatially resolved characterization of the warm molecular torus in the Circinus galaxy
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4225
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template                       | Science Target          |
| :---- | :--------------------------------------- | :---------------------- |
| 1     | Circinus-MRS-Nucleus MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) CIRCINUS-NUCLEUS    |
| 2     | Circinus-MRS-Sky MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy     | (2) CIRCINUS-BACKGROUND |

## ABSTRACT

The unified scheme of active galactic nuclei (AGN) postulates that the central engine is surrounded by an optically and geometrically thick torus. One of the most promising models to explain the origin of the torus, after accounting for the MIR polar dust elongation, is the radiation-driven fountain model, in which AGN-driven outflows are the key process to form the structure. While strong supportive evidence for this model has been obtained by recent ALMA observations, little is known about the geometrically thick volume of the torus as cold gas and dust is predominantly reside in the mid-plane of the disk.

Here we propose MIRI/MRS observations over the full wavelength coverage to detect multiple rotational H2 lines. Our hydrodynamic + radiative transfer simulations indeed reveal that these lines trace the geometrically thick volume. Thanks to the high resolution of MRS (~4-6 pc), we can for the first time map the torus-scale (~30 pc) at these warm molecular lines. We will investigate spatial distribution of the warm gas, which directly constrains the torus shape. The molecular gas temperature and mass will be directly measured by making spatially resolved rotation diagrams, which will also be used to investigate if there is Compton-thick material in the geometrically thick volume. Warm molecular outflows and backflows will be searched based on the resolved dynamics. We will also make a visual extinction map by using the accurately constrained silicate absorption feature.

Combined with high resolution multiwavelength data, our JWST observations will finally provide the first spatially resolved, complete understanding of the multiphase AGN torus.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We request MIRI/MRS observations of the torus scale region of the nearby AGN, the Circinus galaxy. The full spectral coverage of MIRI (4.9-28 micon) will be observed to detect multiple rotational H2 lines and 9.7 micron silicate absorption feature. The smallest MIRI/MRS field of view surely covers the area of our interst (< 3"), hence we only request a single pointing centered on the AGN.

The 4-pt dithering for extended source will be performed to enhance the spatial and spectral samplings, with the primary channel = ALL as every channel contains important lines. The FASTR1 readout mode will be used as the target is the bright source. For each of the dither point, the number of the groups per integration (N_group) and the number of integrations per exposure (N_int) are set to 3-8 and 4-12, respectively, to avoid possible saturation and to cope with setup restrictions.

The simultaneously conducted imaging will be done with the filter set of F770W, F1000W, and F1130W to cover PAH and silicate absorption feature.
We also request a target acquisition for this observation. A bright star near the Circinus galaxy will be observed for this purpose with the Neutral Density Filter and FASTGRPAVG readout.

Special requirements: regarding the background observations, we request non-interruptible sequence observations.