---
id: 4233
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Anna de Graaff  Co-PI: Gabriel Brammer"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "57.89/0"
program_title: "A complete census of the rare, extreme and red: A NIRCam-selected extragalactic community survey with JWST/NIRSpec"
type: "GO"
---
# 4233 - A complete census of the rare, extreme and red: A NIRCam-selected extragalactic community survey with JWST/NIRSpec
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4233
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label      | Observing Template              | Science Target              |
| :--------- | :------------------------------ | :-------------------------- |
| uds p1-3   | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (3) PRIMER-UDS-FULL-V4      |
| uds obs2z  | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (5) PRIMER-UDS-7.2.3-gaia   |
| uds obs3abc | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (5) PRIMER-UDS-7.2.3-gaia   |
| uds obs4bcd | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (5) PRIMER-UDS-7.2.3-gaia   |
| egs p4-6   | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (4) CEERS-FULL-V2           |
| egs p1-3   | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (4) CEERS-FULL-V2           |

---

## ABSTRACT

The first long-wavelength images of extragalactic deep fields with JWST/NIRCam have yielded myriad interesting sources. Newly discovered objects are reported to show extremely red colors. High-redshift galaxies appear more numerous, brighter, and more massive than anticipated, possibly in tension with the current standard cosmological model. Follow-up spectroscopy is critical to understand the physical properties of these sources and their course of evolution. However, bright objects are extremely rare: collecting a statistical sample demands a wide-area spectroscopic program. We propose spectroscopic follow-up with the NIRSpec MSA of bright F444W sources selected from two deep fields imaged in Cycle 1 (CEERS and PRIMER), covering 18 pointings over 250 sq arcmin to obtain ~100 spectra of the most rare objects and a 4 micron flux-limited sample (1200) spanning 2<z<7. Modest exposures of 48 min in the PRISM and G395M modes will reveal the stellar continua and nebular line emission for bright sources (F444W<26). We will (1) constrain the redshifts and masses of bright z>7 objects, (2) uncover the nature of extremely red sources, and (3) map the star formation histories of galaxies at z>2. Our survey will hold immense legacy value, providing medium-resolution spectroscopy for an additional 3800 targeted sources, enabling population studies of the z>5 interstellar medium. Executing a wide spectroscopic program early in the lifetime of JWST will open up a wealth of new questions and candidates in popular extragalactic fields for further follow-up observations. We are committed to deliver high-level data products on a rapid timescale to maximize community use of these data.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This NIRSpec MSA program targets high-redshift galaxies selected from public Cycle 1 NIRCam imaging, to achieve a flux-limited survey design. We use the G395M/F270LP and PRISM/CLEAR modes and observe for 2888 sec each, opening 3 shutters per target. We perform an MSA re-configuration between the two modes. In this way, we avoid overlapping spectra in the PRISM mode, but allow for overlapping spectra in G395M as all our targets are sufficiently faint in the continuum. We perform a 3-point nodding pattern to sample the PSF and LSF of our targets, and improve our background subtraction. We will observe 18 pointings in two different extragalactic deep fields.