---
id: 4237
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging  MIRI/MRS  NIRCam/Imaging  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Patrick Ogle"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "15.1/0"
program_title: "AGB Feedback and Radio Jet Driven Outflows in 3C 305"
type: "GO"
---
# 4237 - AGB Feedback and Radio Jet Driven Outflows in 3C 305
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4237
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                      | Observing Template                     | Science Target     |
| :------------------------- | :------------------------------------- | :----------------- |
| 3C305_JET_NIRSpec_IFU      | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy               | (2) 3C-305         |
| 3C305_MIRI_MRS             | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (4) 3C-305-MRS     |
| 3C305_OFF_MIRI_MRS         | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (3) 3C-305-OFF     |
| 3C305_MIRI_IM              | MIRI Imaging                           | (5) 3C-305-IM      |
| 3C305_OFF_MIRI_IM          | MIRI Imaging                           | (3) 3C-305-OFF     |
| 3C305_NIRCAM_IM            | NIRCam Imaging                         | (2) 3C-305         |
| 3C305_NIRCAM_IM            | NIRCam Imaging                         | (2) 3C-305         |

## ABSTRACT

AGN feedback on the interstellar medium is an important process that may limit star formation in the most massive galaxies. We propose NIRSpec and MIRI IFU mosaics and NIRCam and MIRI imaging of the nearby radio galaxy 3C 305 in order to measure the impact of spatially resolved molecular and ionized outflows on the interstellar medium and star formation in this prime nearby example of radio-jet feedback. Nearly 10% of the molecular gas in this merging galaxy has been heated to temperatures of >200 K by mechanical feedback from the radio jet, resulting in spectacularly strong H2 emission. JWST can spatially resolve and map the kinematics and temperature distribution of this shocked molecular gas for the first time, allowing us to determine what fraction of it is heated in situ vs. entrained in an outflow. The radio jet can also inject turbulence into the interstellar medium and destroy small dust grains, potentially reducing the efficiency of star formation. We will map the velocity field, temperature distribution, power dissipation, and outflow rate in H2 and ionized gas along the radio jet in order to evaluate its impact on the physical state and kinematics of the ISM. We will measure star formation rates in molecular clouds near and far from the jet in order to determine if there is any correlation or anticorrelation of star formation with the jet location. A detailed, spatially and spectrally resolved study of one of the brightest nearby examples of powerful radio-jet feedback on molecular gas will lay the groundwork for utilizing JWST to study quasar feedback on galaxy evolution at high redshifts.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

**MIRI MRS:** A 2x2 mosaic will cover the central 6.5 × 8.0 arcsec^2 region of 3C 305. Channels 1-4 will give 5–27 micron spectral coverage of the H2 pure-rotational lines, PAH features, and forbidden lines at a spectral resolution of 80–240 km/s. A 4-pt extended source dither improves sampling, and a single, dithered, off-galaxy background pointing will enable reliable MIR background subtraction. Simultaneous MRS imaging off-galaxy will be used to improve the MRS astrometry. Exposures of 30 groups x 1 integration x 4 dithers (FASTR1) give representative SNR in the continuum-subtracted H2 0-0 S(2) line peak and wings of 30 and 6, respectively.

**NIRSpec IFU:** A 2x2 mosaic covers the inner 6.2 × 6.2 arcsec^2. The G235H/F170LP and G395H/F290LP grating and filter combinations capture the H2 ro-vibrational lines, hydrogen recombination lines including Pa-alpha, and PAH features from 1.7–5.3 microns, at a spectral resolution of 110 km/s. We will use a 4-pt dither to improve spatial sampling and mitigate against cosmic rays and detector defects. Leakcal observations are not necessary. Exposures of 15 groups x 1 integration x 4 dithers give peak SNR = 230 in an 0. 25" radius aperture. The corresponding S/N ratios per spectral bin in the H2 1-0 S(0) line peak and wings are 30 and 10, respectively. Our ETC calculations show that we will have sufficient S/N (> 10) in the broad line wings to map the outflows in several ro-vibrational H2 lines and Pa-alpha.

**MIRI imaging** of 8 micron PAH emission in the F770W filter and the H2 0-0 S(3) rotational line (redshifted to 10.1 microns) in the F1000W filter. This will give a global view of the distribution of PDRs and PAH ionization.

**NIRCam imaging** in the F182M/F150W and F335M/F277W bands will give continuum-subtracted Pa-alpha and PAH3.3um, which trace outflows and star formation, over the full galaxy.