---
id: 4244
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging  MIRI/LRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Viraj Karambelkar  Co-PI: Ryan Lau"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "10.14/0"
program_title: "Are Luminous Red Novae major factories of cosmic dust?"
type: "GO"
---
# 4244 - Are Luminous Red Novae major factories of cosmic dust?
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4244
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label             | Observing Template              | Science Target      |
| :---------------- | :------------------------------ | :------------------ |
| AT2018bwo         | MIRI Imaging                    | (1) AT2018BWO       |
| M31-LRN-2015      | MIRI Imaging                    | (2) M31-LRN-2015    |
| AT2021blu_img     | MIRI Imaging                    | (3) AT2021BLU       |
| AT2021biy_img     | MIRI Imaging                    | (4) AT2021BIY       |
| AT2021blu_spec    | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) AT2021BLU       |
| AT2021biy_spec    | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) AT2021BIY       |

---

## ABSTRACT

Despite their vital importance to several astrophysical processes, the major sources of dust grains in the interstellar medium (ISM) are still not fully understood. In this proposal, we aim to investigate a previously unexplored but potentially important source of cosmic dust - extragalactic Luminous Red Novae (LRNe). LRNe are energetic outbursts representing the final stages of common envelope evolution (CEE), which results in either a stellar merger or the ejection of the CE. Extragalactic LRNe are prolific sites of dust production, evidenced by their rapid reddening and long lasting (>1000 day) infrared (IR) lightcurves. Their volumetric rate is high enough (~80% of the core-collapse supernova rate) to make their dust contribution comparable to known major dust sources (AGBs, RSGs and SNe). However, dust masses have not been measured for any extragalactic LRN to date. Here, we propose to utilize the unprecedented mid-IR sensitivity of JWST to obtain the first dust mass measurements in a variety of LRNe. During JWST Cycle 2, we aim to observe four extragalactic LRNe that span a wide range in luminosities and progenitor masses (4-20 Msun) with the Mid-Infrared Instrument (MIRI). Our observations use a combination of 5-12 µm low-resolution spectroscopy and 5-25 µm imaging to derive the dust masses produced by these LRNe. These observations will directly test whether LRNe are major factories of cosmic dust. Additionally, our dust mass measurements will probe the total mass ejected in these LRNe and shed light on whether the binaries that produced them merged, or survived by ejecting the CE.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The aim of this proposal is to use 10.14 hours of JWST observations to observe four extragalactic luminous red novae (LRNe) with the Mid Infrared Instrument (MIRI) to measure the amount of dust produced in them. The dust masses will be used to investigate whether LRNe are major sources of cosmic dust, and to shed light on the final fates of binaries undergoing common envelope evolution that produce LRNe.

The targets of this proposal are four well-studied extragalactic LRNe - M31-LRN-2015, AT 2018bwo, AT 2021blu and AT 2021biy. We aim to obtain 5-25 µm spectroscopic and photometric observations for these transients, to measure the dust masses produced in them. As shown in Figure 3 (Scientific Justification), 5-12 µm observations are required to measure masses if the dust formation is low. Longer wavelength (>15 µm) observations are required to measure higher dust masses that produce a larger optical depth.

Two of our targets - AT 2021blu and AT 2021biy are bright enough for MIRI-LRS spectroscopy. We obtain a S/N > 10 in the 5-12 µm for an exposure time of 1112 seconds for each target. For the other two, we aim to cover this wavelength range by imaging in the F560W, F770W, F1000W, F1130W and F1280W filters. In addition to these, we propose imaging observations in F1500W, F1800W, F2100W and F2550W filters for all four targets to cover wavelengths from 15 - 25 µm. The total exposure time required to obtain S/N > 10 in the imaging observations is 448 seconds each for AT 2021blu and AT 2021biy and 1736 seconds each for M31-LRN-2015 and AT 2018bwo.

We request that all observations of the same target be conducted back-to-back, as our targets are time varying and simultaneous observations are required to measure their spectral energy distribution. We do not place any constraint on the timing of observations of different targets. All four targets have Micrometeoroid safe visibility windows during JWST Cycle 2.