---
id: 4250
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Henry Hsieh"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "8.82/0"
program_title: "Characterization of Water Outgassing in Main-Belt Comets 133P/Elst-Pizarro and 358P/PANSTARRS"
type: "GO"
---
# 4250 - Characterization of Water Outgassing in Main-Belt Comets 133P/Elst-Pizarro and 358P/PANSTARRS
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4250
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
**1. List of Labels, Observing Template, and Science Targets**

| Folder | Observation | Label                     | Observing Template        | Science Target |
| :----- | :---------- | :------------------------ | :------------------------ | :------------- |
| 133P   | 1           | 133P - NIRCam             | NIRCam Imaging            | (1) 133P       |
|        | 7           | 133P - NIRCam             | NIRCam Imaging            | (1) 133P       |
|        | 2           | 133P - NIRSpec            | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (1) 133P       |
|        | 3           | 133P - Background - NIRSpec | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (1) 133P       |
| 358P   | 4           | 358P - NIRCam             | NIRCam Imaging            | (2) 358P       |
|        | 5           | 358P - NIRSpec            | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (2) 358P       |
|        | 6           | 358P - Background - NIRSpec | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (2) 358P       |

## ABSTRACT

Current research on small bodies in the solar system suggests that there is a continuum between comets and asteroids, and that the dynamical properties of a small body are not enough to predict the volatile content of an object. These questions are profound for our models of the origin and distribution and of water, volatiles, and organics in our solar system. We request JWST General Observer time to characterize the volatile content of two main-belt comets (MBCs), which are small bodies with asteroid-like orbits that exhibit comet-like activity, with NIRCam and NIRSpec. With observations of MBCs 133P/Elst-Pizarro and 358P/PANSTARRS that we propose here, we will be able to detect water gas production rates as low as 1e24 molecules/s (5-sigma), exceeding pre-JWST upper limits by almost two orders of magnitude. This capability was demonstrated by JWST/NIRSpec's recent successful detection of water gas production in MBC 238P/Read, which was the first successful spectroscopic detection of volatile sublimation for a MBC ever. NIRCam imaging will also allow us to search for morphology differences between our targets' gas and dust comae, providing insights into ejection mechanisms and distribution of active sites on each object. JWST observations of two more MBCs would triple the number of meaningful direct measurements of outgassing rates around small (km-scale) asteroids, and significantly advance our understanding of the diversity of the MBC population.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We plan to observe two main-belt comets, 133P and 358P, while they are expected to be active. We request both NIRCam and NIRSpec IFU prism mode observations, both of which will be used to detect water vapor at 2.7 microns in the coma. The NIRSpec observation has a dedicated background. The NIRCam background can be derived in-scene or from the other module.
Special requirements
** Timing constraints so the observations are executed when the comets are active.
** Offsets for NIRCam to place the targets in detector B1.
** Offsets for NIRSpec backgrounds to nod the telescope to nearby blank sky.
** Timing constraints so that the NIRSpec source - NIRSpec background sequence is execute as a non-interruptible sequence.