---
id: 4256
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Adam Leroy"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "10.35/0"
program_title: "Dust imaging of low metallicity molecular clouds in NGC 6822 and WLM"
type: "GO"
---
# 4256 - Dust imaging of low metallicity molecular clouds in NGC 6822 and WLM
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4256
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                  | Observing Template | Science Target    |
| :--------------------- | :----------------- | :---------------- |
| FIELD1 MIRI MOSAIC     | MIRI Imaging       | (1) NGC6822FIELD1 |
| FIELD2 MIRI MOSAIC     | MIRI Imaging       | (2) NGC6822FIELD2 |
| NGC6822 MIRI OFF       | MIRI Imaging       | (5) NGC6822OFF    |
| FIELD3 MIRI MOSAIC     | MIRI Imaging       | (3) NGC6822FIELD3 |
| FIELD4 MIRI MOSAIC     | MIRI Imaging       | (4) NGC6822FIELD4 |
| FIELD MIRI MOSAIC WLM  | MIRI Imaging       | (6) WLMFIELD1     |
| WLM MIRI OFF           | MIRI Imaging       | (7) WLMOFF        |

---

## ABSTRACT

Most of the star-forming molecular gas in low metallicity galaxies is ``CO dark." As a result, both the mass of molecular gas and the structure of molecular clouds remain largely unknown at low metallicity. This CO dark material is still mixed with small dust grains, so JWST mid-IR observations offer the best current prospect to observe this gas at high physical resolution and sensitivity.

To develop this capability, we propose MIRI imaging of PAH (F770W) and dust continuum (F2100W) emission towards five low metallicity molecular clouds in the Local Group galaxies NGC 6822 and WLM. Both galaxies have resolved 1-2 pc CO cores characterized by ALMA and high quality Jansky VLA imaging of the atomic gas so that the other gas phases are known. They are close enough that JWST achieves 1-3 pc resolution, sharply resolving individual clouds, yet distant enough that our small program can cover most of the known molecular gas mass in each galaxy and span a range of ISM phases.

As these are the only two galaxies with this ideal distance and high quality supporting ISM data, we argue that they are the ideal next targets to tackle this longstanding problem. The result will be some of the best ever constraints on the abundance of CO dark molecular gas, resolved measurements of the CO-to-H2 conversion factor, a new, complete view of low metallicity cloud structure, and dramatic improvements in our understanding of how to use the mid-IR to trace this otherwise invisible gas phase.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The observations use MIRI in imaging mode with the F770W and F2100W filter.

We target 4 on-galaxy fields in NGC 6822 and one off-galaxy field designed to provide background information. The five total observations are linked in time and forced to be sequential, so that the background can be shared. In the other target WLM, we target the one complex with known CO emission in the galaxy and pair one on-galaxy mosaic with an off-galaxy background.

Each on-galaxy field uses a 1x2 MIRI mosaic to cover one of the bright star-forming complexes in the galaxy. At each pointing, we expose for 222s in F770W using a standard dither for extended source 455s in F2100W.