---
id: 4278
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Matilde Mingozzi"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "23.99/0"
program_title: "Tracing molecular gas in nearby metal-poor systems: The keys to unlocking star-formation in the early universe"
type: "GO"
---
# 4278 - Tracing molecular gas in nearby metal-poor systems: The keys to unlocking star-formation in the early universe
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4278
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                                   | Observing Template                     | Science Target             |
| :-------------------------------------- | :------------------------------------- | :------------------------- |
| J0337-0502                              | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (1) J0337-0502             |
| J0337-0502 (repetition of Visit 1)      | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (1) J0337-0502             |
| J0337-0502-BKG                          | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (2) J0337-0502-BKG         |
| J0337-0502-BKG (repetition of visit 2) | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (2) J0337-0502-BKG         |
| J0934+5514                              | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (3) J0934+5514             |
| J0934+5514-BKG                          | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (4) J0934+5514-BKG         |
| J0127-0619                              | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (5) J0127-0619             |
| J0127-0619-BKG                          | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (6) J0127-0619-BKG         |
| J0944+0038                              | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (11) J0944-0038            |
| J0944+0038-BKG                          | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (12) J0944-0038-BKG        |
| J1323-0132                              | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (13) J1323-0132            |
| J1323-0132-BKG                          | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (14) J1323-0132-BKG        |
| J1418+2102                              | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (15) J1418+2102            |
| J1418+2102-BKG                          | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (16) J1418+2102-BKG        |

---

## ABSTRACT

Molecular gas and star formation (SF) are among the main drivers of galaxy evolution and it is uniquely important to investigate them in the pristine primeval systems of the high-z Universe. SF is expected to take place in the cold molecular phase of the gas, mainly constituted by molecular Hydrogen, that unfortunately cannot be directly traced. Alternative methods, like the use of CO, are limited in metal-poor environments, where the reduced dust shielding and high ionization radiation create the so called CO-dark gas. Most importantly, the cold gas phase is inaccessible in the high-z Universe with the current facilities. Here we propose an efficient MIRI MRS program of six nearby metal-poor objects, considered high-z analogs and spanning a range of galaxy properties. Moreover, each is complemented by a unique set of multi-wavelength data (UV, optical and submm). Our aim is to investigate in an alternative way their total molecular reservoir. Specifically, we will measure their warm molecular gas through multiple mid-IR H2 rotational lines, which will be revealed for the first time in low-metallicity gas by harnessing the sensitivity of MIRI.
The conversion of the warm-to-cold molecular gas through their detailed modeling will then give us access to the total molecular gas content. Overall, the MIRI MRS spectra for our high-z analogs in combination with the UV-optical-submm coverage will shed light on the interstellar medium conditions and mechanisms in metal-poor extreme environments of the early systems.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will observe a sample of metal-poor local galaxies with the MIRI/MRS IFU.
We will require one pointing per galaxy, that will cover the majority of the emission with Channel 1 (3.2" X 3.7"), since they are compact systems. In addition, we request companion background observations with half the integrations (same group number, halvening the dithering) as that of the individual pointings to accurately measure and correct for the thermal background.
Given the expected absolute pointing accuracy of JWST (0.10”), we do not request additional time to perform a target acquisition. Our proposed science goals can be achieved with a pointing uncertainty of ~0.10".
We will obtain MIRI/MRS spectra to study the molecular gas traced by H2 pure-rotational transitions uniquely covered by MIRI/MRS wavelength range (5-28 micron) in these metal-poor systems. Hence, we will use all three grating settings, SHORT (A), MEDIUM (B), and LONG (C), and the FAST readout mode. For the galaxies where the H2 transitions reach enough signal-to-noise per spatial elements we will also map the molecular gas emission.
We will collect simultaneous off-source imaging observations using the the F770W, F1130W, and F1800W filters. With these observations we will primarily map PAH and warm dust emission.
We do not require any specific PA orientation for the MIRI/MRS pointings, but background and science observations are connected via a fixed offset and placed in an uninterruptible sequence. This ensures that the target remains at the center of the imaging FoV regardless of the telescope roll angle.