---
id: 4287
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Charlotte Mason  Co-PI: Daniel Stark"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "21.79/13.44"
program_title: "Deep Spectroscopy of the First Ionized Bubbles: New Insight into the Beginning of Reionization"
type: "GO"
---
# 4287 - Deep Spectroscopy of the First Ionized Bubbles: New Insight into the Beginning of Reionization
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4287
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                        | Observing Template                | Science Target          |
| :--------------------------- | :-------------------------------- | :---------------------- |
| EGSYz8p7-Pointing-1_replanned | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (12) EGSbubbles_aptcat_v7 |
| EGSYz8p7-Pointing-3_replanned | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (12) EGSbubbles_aptcat_v7 |
| EGSYz8p7-Pointing-4_replanned | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (12) EGSbubbles_aptcat_v7 |

---

## ABSTRACT

The detection of Lyman-alpha (Lya) in two z~9 galaxies, separated by just 3.6 pMpc, challenges our understanding of Reionization. These are the only known galaxies detected with Lya emission above z>8 and the region around them is likely overdense at z~9. It is has been suggested that they both reside within one of the Universe's first large ionized bubbles, allowing Lya to propagate without significant attenuation by intergalactic neutral hydrogen. However, given our current understanding of reionization and early star formation, such large bubbles are not predicted to exist at z~9. Here we propose to take a significant step in our understanding of the beginning of reionization by performing deep NIRSpec spectroscopy in the region around these galaxies, with the goal of verifying whether the entire large region is ionized. We propose to target 20 UV-faint (m<28.5) galaxies selected from NIRCam imaging and obtain deep rest-frame UV to optical spectra with NIRSpec/MSA. This will spectroscopically confirm z~9 galaxies in this unique region via [OIII]5007 and test the existence of a large ionized bubble, previously impossible before JWST. These observations will enable us to: (1) confirm or rule out the existence of a large (>1-3.6 pMpc) ionized bubble; (2) spectroscopically confirm the candidate z~9 overdensity and map the distribution of galaxies in 3D; (3) infer the ionizing properties of these galaxies, allowing us to understand how such a bubble formed at such early times. This will provide a critical step for understanding the first stages of reionization, with significant implications for our understanding of early (z>9-15) star formation and structure formation.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will target the the region around the z~8.7 LAE EGSY8p7 using NIRSpec with NIRCam imaging in parallel. We will observe in 3 pointings.

Our science goal requires the high resolution gratings, with 4 hours of exposure in G140H/F100LP, and 1 hour of exposure in G395H/F290LP. In order to create MOS configurations, we compiled a catalog of photometrically selected sources from existing JWST/NIRCam and HST imaging in the field. Due to the deep photometric data in this field we are able to make efficient use of the MSA multiplexing.

We use the MSA planning tool to design the MOS configurations and create the observations. For dithering, we choose to nod in the 3-shutter slitlet, which is appropriate for our spatially compact high redshift galaxy targets. This approach has less overhead and maximizes multiplexing efficency, compared to the fixed or flexible dithering options that require additional MSA configurations. At the time of flight-ready program submission, we will include extra background shutters in empty parts of the MSA, in order to ensure reliable background subtraction.

We set up our NIRSpec exposures using NRSIRS2, which is recommended for deep observations. Each NIRSpec exposure is given 16 groups per integration.

For the pointing (Obs 3) which overlaps with existing NIRCam imaging we divide our observations into 2 exposure slots. Exposure 1 contains 4 integrations of G140H/F100LP and Exposure 2 contains 1 integration of G395H/F290LP. NIRCam imaging will be obtained in parallel to the 2 exposures in F090W and F480M using readout pattern MEDIUM8, with 10 groups per integration. This corresponds to a total exposure time of ~4.5 hours for each NIRCam band.

For the pointings which do not overlap with existing NIRCam imaging, we divide our NIRSpec observations into 3 exposure slots. Exposures 1 and 2 each contain 2 integrations of G140H/F100P and Exposure 3 contains 1 integration of G395H/F290LP. In Exposure 1 we will obtain NIRCam parallel imaging in F115W and F444W (6635 seconds) with 7 groups per integration, in Exposure 2 will obtain imaging in F150W and F356W (6635 seconds) with 7 groups per integration, and in Exposure 3 imaging in F200W and F277W with 10 groups/integration (3157 seconds).

All NIRCam observations are taken in MEDIUM8 and reach 5sigma depths of m~28.9-29.4 AB in the wide bands and m~28.1 in F480M for a point source.