---
id: 4291
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Susan Kassin  Co-PI: Camilla Pacifici"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "67.8/0"
program_title: "Galaxy angular momentum alignment with filaments at z ~ 3: The effect of large scale structure on galaxies"
type: "GO"
---
# 4291 - Galaxy angular momentum alignment with filaments at z ~ 3: The effect of large scale structure on galaxies
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4291
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                                   | Observing Template          | Science Target                |
| :-------------------------------------- | :-------------------------- | :---------------------------- |
| Obs1 16 2x2x0p1                         | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (17) Obs1 16                  |
| Obs2_1080_1x2x0p1_mc50                  | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (18) Obs2_1080                |
| Obs3_8_2x2x0.1_mc50_again               | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (19) Obs3_8                   |
| Obs7_15_2x2x0.1_mc50_v5                 | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (24) Obs7_15_TAs_corrected    |
| obs4_358_edited_oneperrow_0x0x0p2       | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (16) Obs4_358_edited          |
| Obs5_33_2x2x0.1_mc50                    | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (20) Obs5_33                  |
| Obs6_40_2x2x0p1_mc50                    | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (21) Obs6_4291_40             |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose NIRSpec MSA spectroscopy to measure, for the first time, the evolution of the alignment of galaxy angular momentum vectors with the surrounding large-scale filamentary structure in the Universe by measuring it at z~3 and comparing with local measurements. This probes the influence of accretion from the cosmic web on the angular momentum of star-forming galaxies. We will test theory predictions that galaxies should be more aligned with filaments at higher z. Locally, kinematic surveys find that the angular momentum of galaxies is statistically aligned with the cosmic web for late-type star forming galaxies, while orthogonal for early types (e.g., Kraljic et al 2021). We propose a mini-MaNGA-like survey of 250 star-forming galaxies at z~3 in the CEERS ERS field with the G235H grating. We will use the NIRSpec MSA in “slitlet stepping” mode to create high quality sub-kiloparsec 2D IFU-like velocity maps. This allows a high multiplex to obtain many kinematic maps in a modest amount of observing time. We will measure the kinematic major axes to obtain the directions of angular momenta, and correlate these directions with filamentary structure traced by spectroscopic and photometric redshifts. We will also measure the 3D kinematics of typical star-forming galaxies at z~3, extending current observations to higher redshifts, and enabling emission line diagnostic science. We waive the proprietary period and will release data cubes and analysis software publicly.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to observe in 6 pointings in the EGS field using the "slitlet stepping" technique and the high resolution grating on NIRSpec (G235H/F170LP). The slitlet steps vary from 2 to 6 steps per galaxy, depending on its size. The slitlets vary also in length from 2 to 5 shutters to cover the entire galaxies. We strongly recommend the reviewers to refer to the technical justification for more details about slitlet stepping.

The 6 pointings cover an area of 100 arcmin^2. We target star forming galaxies at stellar masses larger than 10^9 solar masses in the redshift range 3.0<z<3.4 where we want to observe the Halpha emission line to a signal-to-noise of 10 in each slitlet step.

We select the targets from the CEERS catalogs (private communication) and from the CANDELS catalog (Stefanon et al. 2017) to cover the gaps between the CEERS NIRCam pointings. We have developed custom software to optimize the position and number of sources observed in each poiting making sure that the features of interest (e.g., the Halpha emission line) always falls on the detector. Features falling off the detector or in the gaps can be a problem with the very long spectra of the G235H grating. This is why we have develped a custom version of the MSA Planning Tool (MPT). However, we run our final pointings through the MPT, forcing it to find them to first order, in order to take into instrumental effects such as stuck open/closed shutters and corrections such as the differential velocity abberation.

With the selected catalogs and our custom software, we design MSA masks in each of the pointings and for each of the 6 slitlet steps, such that each pointing is observed 6 times offsetting the MSA mask by +1, -1, +2, -2, and +3 shutters and reconfiguring to get a longer exposure time on the faintest parts of the galaxies. This results in 36 MSA masks. The exposure times are calculated using ETC Workbook 144536 using various galaxy templates and normalizations to find the appropriate exposures to get the required signal-to-noise ratio in the integrated Halpha emission line. The exposure time per step is 73 minutes using subarray FULL, readout pattern NRSIRS2, 15 groups, 1 integration per exposure, and 4 exposures in a 4-point dither pattern. We enter the dither pattern manually by moving the source within the shutter with offsets of 0.185 and 0.094. We demontrate the pattern in the first pointing.

Because we are doing slitlet stepping, some galaxies may not show as being inside the opened shutters when viewed in the MSA Planning Tool. This is because the input RAs and DECs represent the coordinates of galaxy centers, and some of the slitlet steps observe their outer parts. We have verified that the opened shutters do indeed land on the parts of these galaxies that we want to observe using the CEERS NIRCam images. A total of 150 objects will be observed.

We have input the pointings at a PA of 310, which is the most efficient to cover the field.