---
id: 4297
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Noah Rogers"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "23.43/0"
program_title: "The Novel MIR Abundance Diagnostic Ne23"
type: "GO"
---
# 4297 - The Novel MIR Abundance Diagnostic Ne23
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4297
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                      | Observing Template                     | Science Target                   |
| :------------------------- | :------------------------------------- | :------------------------------- |
| M33-438-800                | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (1) M33-438+800                  |
| M33+62+354                 | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (3) M33+62+354                   |
| M33+553+448                | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (4) M33+553+448                  |
| M33+46-380                 | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (5) M33+46-380                   |
| M33-72-1072                | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (2) M33-72-1072                  |
| M33-B Long                 | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (6) M33-B                        |
| M33-B Short                | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (6) M33-B                        |
| NGC5457+668+174            | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (7) NGC5457+668+174              |
| NGC5457+189-136            | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (8) NGC5457+189-136              |
| NGC5457+189-136 ReObserve  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (108) NGC5457+189-136-ReObserve  |
| NGC5457-100-388            | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (9) NGC5457-100-388              |
| NGC5457-205-98             | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (10) NGC5457-205-98              |
| NGC5457-361-280            | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (11) NGC5457-361-280             |
| NGC5457-B2                 | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (13) NGC5457-B2                  |
| NGC5457-B1                 | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (12) NGC5457-B1                  |
| NGC5457-B1 Re-Observe      | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (12) NGC5457-B1                  |
| NGC5457-B3                 | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (14) NGC5457-B3                  |

---

## ABSTRACT

Gas-phase abundances act as powerful tracers of star formation and galactic evolutionary mechanisms. Many prior surveys have relied on strong-line abundance diagnostics, which relate the emission of intense optical lines to the O/H abundance in a nebula. However, these diagnostics have been shown to have large variation and discrepancies when calibrated on empirical or model abundances. The application of different diagnostics produces variations in the shape of the mass-metallicity relation (MZR) at high-O/H, which limits our understanding of galaxy evolution in these highly enriched environments.

One alternative is to utilize the IR fine-structure lines, which are insensitive to the electron temperature and reddening, and which accurately probe gas-phase abundances/ionization conditions. Up to this point, aperture effects and low sensitivity of prior telescopes have limited the use of fine-structure lines in chemical abundance surveys. JWST's MIRI/MRS and its IFU capabilities address both issues, allowing for the most direct comparison of space-based MIR and ground-based optical observations of emission line sources. Within MIRI/MRS's Channel 3 are the Ne fine-structure lines, powerful tracers of chemical enrichment from high-mass stars and the ionization structure of the gas. We propose to measure a novel MIR abundance diagnostic, Ne23, in bright, extragalactic H II regions to evaluate the evolution of O/H as a function of Ne23. Once calibrated, the Ne23 diagnostic can be used to accurately infer O/H in a variety of sources over JWST's lifetime, including highly-obscured sources and high-O/H galaxies that will constrain the shape of the MZR.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to observe 10 H II regions, 5 in each of the spiral galaxies M101 and M33, with a broad range of metallicity and ionization conditions. MIRI/MRS IFU spectroscopy of the targeted regions is required to match the apertures used for ground-based observations of the same regions by the Chemical Abundances Of Spirals (CHAOS) project.

MIRI/MRS Science: We utilize Bands A and C to obtain coverage of the emission lines necessary to measure Ne23, namely [Ne II] 12.8um, [Ne III] 15.6um, and HuA. The science goal of robustly measuring Ne23 within the same area of extraction as prior optical observations requires high S/N detections of all three lines. The exposure times were calculated using the CHAOS optical flux measurements of HB and [Ne III] 3868 to infer the HuA and [Ne III] 15.6um emission, respectively. The O^+/O^2+ ionic abundance fraction and the predicted [Ne III] 15.6um intensity were used to infer the emission from [Ne II] 12.8um.
We assume a 2D symmetric Gaussian with standard deviation equal to the expected value from CHAOS extractions, and we require an exposure time necessary to obtain a [Ne II] and [Ne III] S/N > 10 in each pixel within the H II region area. By satisfying this requirement, the HuA line is detected at S/N > 20 when using an extraction aperture of size equal to the optical aperture, which allows for a robust measurement of all lines needed to calculate Ne23.

MIRI/MRS Backgrounds: The proposed H II regions are extended, requiring a dedicated background to remove the thermal background. We have selected four background pointings that are free from emission in the Spitzer/IRAC 8m images of M101 and M33. Each sequence of H II region observations is followed by a background exposure of duration equal to the longest science exposure within that sequence.

Our total requested observation time is 11.89 hours with a total requested time of 23.43 hours.