---
id: 4318
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Jacqueline Antwi-Danso  Co-PI: Casey Papovich"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "11.16/0"
program_title: "Is there Evidence of alpha-Enhancement in Massive Quiescent Galaxies at z > 3?"
type: "GO"
---
# 4318 - Is there Evidence of alpha-Enhancement in Massive Quiescent Galaxies at z > 3?
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4318
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label   | Observing Template               | Science Target           |
| :------ | :------------------------------- | :----------------------- |
| plan600 | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (11) go4318_target_v9s |

## ABSTRACT

We propose NIRSpec MOS spectroscopy of three massive quiescent galaxies at 3< z< 5. We have confirmed their quiescent nature and redshifts via the detection of Balmer absorption lines in deep Keck/MOSFIRE spectroscopy. Our robust sample selection and analysis reveals that two them are uncomfortably massive (log M/M_sun>11), placing them in tension with predictions from LCDM. The missing piece in resolving this tension is a direct observational constraint on their formation timescales and hence stellar mass assembly histories via fossil records imprinted in their stellar populations (i.e. their [alpha/Fe] ratios). The largest factor limiting progress on this front is the lack of high SNR spectroscopic data with continuous wavelength coverage (1.6-5.3 microns) that includes these key features. This is a Herculean task to attempt from the ground, where atmospheric absorption and emission make continuum observations far more challenging, thereby requiring 50+ hours on the most sensitive ground-based spectrographs to make marginally constraining measurements of elemental ratios. In this proposal, we demonstrate that we achieve the requisite SNR for all our candidates with only 8 hours of JWST/NIRSpec time enabling us to constrain [alpha/Fe] to within 0.12 dex. This will allow us to trace stellar population properties as close to their formation epoch as possible and make practical recommendations for stellar population synthesis codes and cosmological simulations, which will address this tension with theory. Our modest proposal is a proof of concept that this transformative science can only be done at these early epochs with JWST and will motivate future, deeper observations.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to use JWST/NIRSpec in the MSA mode to obtain continuous wavelength coverage of 3 massive quiescent galaxy candidates at 3 <z< 5 selected in the COSMOS field. The goals of this program are: 1) Confirming the detection of Balmer absorption lines in our faintest (Ks ~ 24) quiescent candidates at z = 3.33 and z = 4.67. 2) Making the first measurement of [alpha/Fe] for this population to better constrain their ages and formation timescales. 3) Constraining the redshifts for ~ 45 filler targets including extreme emission line galaxies at 2 < z < 5.5 and massive star forming galaxies at z ~ 3-4. At these redshifts z>3, several of the age and abundance features of interest lie at > 2.5 microns in the observed frame, hence are only observable with JWST. We propose to observe our targets with the medium resolution (R= 1000) G235M/F170LP and G395/F290LP gratings. This grism/filter combination provides the best wavelength coverage and resolution required to obtain the elemental abundances of z ~ 3-5 galaxies. 50-83 groups with 3 exposures with NRSIRS2 (recommended for faint targets) yields SNR \sim 6 - 50 per pixel at 1.5 - 3 microns. Therefore, our program requires ~ 11,000s (~3 hours) in the G235M grating and ~ 18206s (~ 5 hours) in the G395M grating to achieve the desired SNR.