---
id: 4320
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Christopher Glein"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "3.44/0"
program_title: "Seeking New Clues to the Habitability and Plume Activity of the Ocean World Enceladus using JWST-NIRSpec"
type: "GO"
---
# 4320 - Seeking New Clues to the Habitability and Plume Activity of the Ocean World Enceladus using JWST-NIRSpec
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4320
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                      | Observing Template    | Science Target |
| :------------------------- | :-------------------- | :------------- |
| NIRSpec Enceladus Leading | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) ENCELADUS  |

## ABSTRACT

We propose to make the first measurements of Enceladus's leading hemisphere with JWST-NIRSpec. These data are needed to test results from Cassini, to put them in greater context, and to support a path between the Cassini era of Enceladus exploration and the next stage of spacecraft exploration. Enceladus has dazzled the science community and the public alike, and is among the highest-priority targets in the solar system as affirmed by the recently released Decadal Survey. Yet, important questions remain pertaining to the habitability of its ocean and its plume activity, despite Cassini's in-depth investigations and JWST's previous fleeting glimpse of the trailing hemisphere. We aim to address the following questions:
Are ocean-derived materials relatively abundant on Enceladus's surface?
Are carbon-bearing compounds relatively abundant on Enceladus's surface?
Are strong oxidants relatively abundant on Enceladus's surface?
Do Enceladus's gas plume and torus exhibit variability?
Sensitive searches for key signatures of indicator molecules (carbonate salts, ammonia, CO2, CH-organics, hydrogen peroxide, and water vapor in the range 1.66-5.1 µm) that strike at the heart of these questions will be performed using NIRSpec's integral field unit with G235H and G395M gratings. Much longer exposures, driven by the need to detect CO2, will provide a substantial boost in SNR, which is one of several advancements over the previous GTO observation of Enceladus. By providing access to required spectral regions that are opaque or compromised from the ground, JWST will enable the next breakthrough in our understanding of Enceladus, which otherwise may not happen for at least 20 years.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose for JWST to make one observation of Saturn's moon Enceladus using NIRSpec IFU with G235H and G395M gratings. This observation will require 0.88 hours of science time and a total allocation of 3.50 hours, with 4-point dithering included. The expected data volume is 6150 MB. These values were calculated using the JWST Exposure Time Calculator (ETC) and APT to provide sufficient SNR to meet our science goals. An observationally-based surface spectrum uploaded from the Planetary Spectrum Generator, together with best-available compositional constraints, served as the basis of these estimates.
We require the proposed observation to be made when Enceladus's leading hemisphere is facing JWST (sub-observer longitudes between 75 and 105°W). We also require Enceladus to be separated by >10" from Titan and Rhea. If selected, our final requirement is for this observation to occur in JWST's trailing field of regard (FOR) during Cycle 2.