---
id: 4332
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Silvia Vicente  Co-PI: Wing-Fai Thi"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "8.82/0"
program_title: "A JWST IFU deep study of gas, dust, and PAHs in a prototypical externally illuminated protoplanetary disk"
type: "GO"
---
# 4332 - A JWST IFU deep study of gas, dust, and PAHs in a prototypical externally illuminated protoplanetary disk
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4332
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :---- | :---------------------------------- | :------------- |
| | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) HST10 |
| | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) HST10 |
| | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) HST10 |

## ABSTRACT

What is the thermo-chemical structure of a proplyd Photodissociation Region (PDR)? What is the composition, and hence reservoir, in dust, gas and PAHs in a typical EUV+FUV externally illuminated disk? How the external irradiation affects the process of planet formation in these disks? And how their properties differ from those of disks found in more quiescent environments, such as Taurus-Auriga?

In order to address these questions we propose to conduct a JWST deep observational study of an externally illuminated protoplanetary disk (proplyd) using the IFU modes of NIRSpec and MIRI-MRS. The JWST IFU observations will spatially resolve, for the first time, the disk, neutral cocoon and ionization front simultaneously over the 0.9 - 28.5 micron spectral range, providing key line, continuum and PAHs diagnostics that trace the physical conditions, chemical composition and abundances under the effect of external FUV-radiation. It is the FUV radiation that changes the thermal structure and chemical composition of the disk and sets the mass-loss rate through photoevaporation.
By comparing our results to those of proto-planetary disks (TTauris) found in nearby low-mass star forming regions and targeted by several JWST GTO and GO programs (e.g. Taurus-Auriga, Lupus) one can start to assess the real effects of a FUV-dominant environment on protoplanetary disk evolution and planet formation.

Earth's atmosphere and proplyd faintness in the mid-IR makes them almost out of reach sources for mid-IR spectroscopy from the ground. And hence, the James Webb Space Telescope (JWST) is currently the only observatory able to perform the proposed observations and study.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Observations in this program will be conducted with NIRSpec and MIRI-MRS IFUs to obtain deep spectral maps of an extended source located in a massive star-forming region in our Galaxy.

NIRSpec IFU spectrocopy:

- We will obtain a single pointing using all the gratings above 1 micron with the H grisms. The observations will be conducted with the NRSRAPID readout, using a 4 point dither. We include a dark exposure to quantify the leakage of the Micro-Shutter Array (MSA) and also include simultanous imaging with the F560W setting to obtain a reference image at short MIRI wavelengths. We perform target acquisition with the F110W filter, using the WATA method, SUB32 subarray and the NRSRAPID readout.

MIRI IFU spectroscopy:

- we will obtain a single pointing over the entire spectral range. We use the F560W filter for target acquisition and apply a 4 point dither optimized for extended sources. For the short and long detectors, we use the FAST readout. We also include (as a bonus), simultaneous Imager observation with the F560W filter, to obtain a additional image of the PDR in the continuum.