---
id: 4343
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging  NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Oleg Kargaltsev"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "4.8/0"
program_title: "Hunting for IMBHs in the Omega Centauri Globular Cluster"
type: "GO"
---
# 4343 - Hunting for IMBHs in the Omega Centauri Globular Cluster
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4343
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
|---|---|---|
| | MIRI Imaging | (1) OMEGACEN |
| | NIRCam Imaging | (1) OMEGACEN |

## ABSTRACT

We propose to use the outstanding IR sensitivity and superb angular resolution of JWST to search for emission from IMBH(s) in the most massive Galactic globular cluster (GC), omega Cen. The state-of-the-art ADAF models of low-rate accretion from the ambient medium predict that the spectral flux of an IMBH peaks in IR, while most of the previous searches fro IMBHs in GCs were conducted in X-rays and radio, where IMBHs can be much fainter. Omega Cen is one of the best candidates to host IMBH(s), while also being nearby and having a relatively low central stellar density. Therefore, JWST should be able to resolve even very faint sources in the core of the cluster. Observing in four bands (evenly distrubuted between 2 and 15 micron) and leveraging the existing extraordinary amount of HST data on Omega Cen (including very deep WFC3/IR observations), we will be able to detect IMBH candidates using their distinct IR-NIR colors and a lack of optical counterparts. The data from this program willalso be useful for evaluating the dust content in the globular clusters and for cross-calibration between JWST and Spitzer.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This JWST project consists of imaging observations with MIRI and NIRCam. Our goal is to resolve sources in the dense core of Omega Cen cluster and perform accourate photometry in 4 bands evenly distributed arcross 2-15 micron range.

For the MIRI imaging we will use two filters: F1500W and F770W. For observations with each filter we will use 4-point dither and FASTR1 readout. For NIRCam observations we will employ F200W and F444W filters. We will use the INTRAMODULEBOX dither pattern for 4 dithers to fill the gaps between the NIRCAM modules and chips. BRIGHT1 readout pattern with 4 groups per integration and two integrations per dither will be used.