---
id: 4358
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 2"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/WFSS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Zak Smith  Co-PIs: Abraham Boogert and Jennifer Noble"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "20.08/0"
program_title: "iCe astrocHemistry at the EdgE of a staR-formIng clOud (CHEERIO): Cha I"
type: "GO"
---
# 4358 - iCe astrocHemistry at the EdgE of a staR-formIng clOud (CHEERIO): Cha I
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4358
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                                   | Observing Template                  | Science Target                      |
| :-------------------------------------- | :---------------------------------- | :---------------------------------- |
| CO R Top Cloud                          | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (1) TOP-CLOUD-EDGE-CO-FILTER-R    |
| CO C Top Cloud                          | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (2) TOP-CLOUD-EDGE-CO-FILTER-C    |
| H2O C Top Cloud                         | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (3) TOP-CLOUD-EDGE-H2O-FILTER-R    |
| H2O R Bottom Cloud                      | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (4) BOTTOM-CLOUD-EDGE-H2O-R       |
| H2O R Bottom Cloud - Duplicate of Obs 4 | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (4) BOTTOM-CLOUD-EDGE-H2O-R       |
| H2O C Bottom Cloud                      | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (5) BOTTOM-CLOUD-EDGE-H2O-FILTER-C |

---

## ABSTRACT

CHEERIO is a small-scale JWST programme exploiting the NIRCam-WFSS instrument to generate ice spectra (with complete 2-5 micron spectral coverage) of 2 cloud edge regions in the Chameleon I molecular cloud.

The enhanced sensitivity of JWST is uniquely suited to probing the edges of molecular clouds, allowing us to address the puzzling question of how interstellar ice mantles first form in these tenuous transition regions between the dense and diffuse interstellar medium. Many questions remain about the true conditions for the appearance of interstellar ice. With the observation strategy forseen in this proposal, we will detect the main constituents of interstellar ices (H2O, CO, CO2 and CH3OH), extracting their abundance and relative compositions as a function of extinction (Av) - the "blocking" by background starlight by ever denser gas and dust. These observations will provide fierce discriminators to benchmark predictions of ice molecular abundances from astrochemical models. Interstellar molecular clouds assemble via a journey exploring successively, and dynamically, different physical conditions. We predict the ices observed depend on this "pathway", and will test our astrochemical understanding with these observations.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The CHEERIO program exploits NIRCam WFSS to generate complete spectral coverage of 2 cloud edge regions in the Chameleon I molecular cloud. The required observing time is 20.07 hours (9.23 science hours). These observations will provide spectra on lines of sight towards of 600+ background sources, the majority of which will include ice absorptions at some SNR (from a few to many 100's) . Covering wavelengths from 2.4-5µm at R=1120-1680, this programme surveys the 4 key ice species H2O, CO, CO2 and CH3OH, that are anticipated to form earliest during molecular cloud evolution, at Av values ranging from 0 to 50. In achieving the science goals of this proposal, JWST sensitivity is critical to identifying enough background sources against which we can detect ice spectra that probe low dynamic Av ranges i.e. below 1 to 2. SW and LW NIRCAM imaging (concurrent with NIRCam WFSS) will provide photometry at 1.4, 1.5, 1.87 and 2.5µm, directly within the steepest region of each background source's extinction curve. This data is fundamental to describing the SED curve of the background source against which the ice absorption spectra are recorded, and provide vital tethering points to remove the intrinsic photospheric features of the background sources. It is standard to fit ice spectra with a suitable Phoenix stellar model, reddened by an interstellar extinction curve – thereby yielding Av values from the data reduction alongside ice feature detections. The proposal contains no duplicate observations, is fully schedulable in the APT and avoids the micrometeoroid avoidance zone.