---
id: 4427
proposal_type: "ddt"
cycle: 1
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 2.2
program_title: "The impact of smaller accretion bursts on the planet-forming material in the disk of a young eruptive star"
type: ""
---
# 4427 - The impact of smaller accretion bursts on the planet-forming material in the disk of a young eruptive star
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4427
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label               | Observing Template                      | Science Target             |
| :------------------ | :-------------------------------------- | :------------------------- |
| EX Lup              | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy     | (1) HD-325367              |
| EXLup-background    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy     | (2) HD-325367-BACKGROUND   |

---

## ABSTRACT

One of the first JWST papers about protoplanetary disks (Kospal et al. 2023) presented a MIRI/MRS study of the young eruptive star EX Lup. The authors discovered cold crystalline silicate grains close to the snowline in the disk, and interpreted it as a long-lasting consequence of the powerful outburst of EX Lup in 2008. Here we propose an alternative interpretation of the results, raising the possibility that the detected crystalline silicates formed in a very recent smaller burst in 2022 spring. In the present time-critical DD time request, we propose an experiment to discriminate between the two scenarios by taking a new MIRI/MRS 5-27 um spectrum. Comparing the strength of the crystalline silicate features at 16.3, 19.0, 20.0, and 23.5 um with the published JWST observation, we will learn if the features have changed during the 7 months between the two JWST epochs and estimate the timescale of their evolution. Based on models, the constancy (or slow evolution) of the crystalline features points to the 2008 large outburst, while a significant drop implies the 2022 smaller burst as the origin of the crystals. The DD request is justified by the expected rapid evolution of the features in the latter scenario. Waiting for cycle 3 means observations in 2024 Aug, 2.5 years after the small burst, which would not contrain the timescales sufficiently. Proving that the spectral features detected in EX Lup by JWST indeed originate from the 2022 burst would be a paradigm-shifting discovery, implying that not only the rare large outbursts but also the more common smaller bursts can enrich planet-forming disks in crystalline material.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We request MIRI MRS spectroscopy of the young outbursting star EX Lup. We will use all 4 channels, covering the whole available wavelength range between 5 and 28 micrometer. This is a variability proposal: our aim is to compare the requested MIRI spectrum with a previous MIRI spectrum obtained on 2022-Aug-23. The object is expected to have comparable continuum brightness now as in late 2022, therefore, the same observing setup as previously used is requested here. For this, we copied the setup of the program 2209 to here. The executed program 2209 observations of EX Lup resulted in a spectrum with signal-to-noise ratios of 120 at 9.0 um, 100 at 15.5 um, and 60 at 25.0 um on the continuum (Kospal et al. 2023). We expect to reach similar signal-to-noise ratios for the proposed project. The only difference compared to the previous observations is that we will take acquisition for the science target. For the spectroscopy, will use 15 groups and 2 integrations per exposure in each Channel/Wavelength range. A 4-point dither pattern will be adopted. We include simultaneous imaging to help the astrometric calibration. We will also observe a separate background field with no dithering, 15 groups, and 1 integration per exposure.