---
id: 4443
proposal_type: "calibration"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: ""
program_title: "CAL-NRC-202  NIRCam and NIRISS Sky Flats"
type: ""
---
# 4443 - CAL-NRC-202  NIRCam and NIRISS Sky Flats
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4443
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label             | Observing Template | Science Target     |
| :---------------- | :----------------- | :----------------- |
| Monitor w/ NIRISS | NIRCam Imaging     | (9) ECLIPTIC-RA160 |
| Monitor w/ NIRISS | NIRCam Imaging     | (11) ECLIPTIC-RA200 |
| Monitor w/ NIRISS | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) ECLIPTIC-RA00  |
| Monitor w/ NIRISS | NIRCam Imaging     | (3) ECLIPTIC-RA40  |
| Monitor w/ NIRISS | NIRCam Imaging     | (5) ECLIPTIC-RA80  |
| Monitor w/ NIRISS | NIRCam Imaging     | (7) ECLIPTIC-RA120 |

---

## ABSTRACT

Instead of taking dedicated sky flats during Cycle 2, we will use the deep field GTO data to reconstruct P-flats in a subset of filters. Since we cannot control when the GTO data are obtained, we will also monitor the stability of the sky flats with the F070W and F277W filter pair. We will obtain 6 epochs, which are scheduled in parallel with NIRISS sky flats. Large scale frequency variations in the NIRCam illumination pattern (L-flats) will be measured in CAL-NIRCAM-203, in combination with the data from this program and GTO data.

This calibration program may change in response to system developments and the final Cycle 2 science program.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

CAL-NIRCAM-202: NIRCam Sky Flat Field Monitor

Baseline sky flats will be constructed from GTO data of deep fields. This program will monitor the stability of the sky flats in the F070W and F277W filters over 6 epochs throughout Cycle 2. Each epoch uses the DEEP8 pattern with NGROUP=4 and a 17-point INTRASCA dither, for a total exposure time of ~12,500s. This provides roughly 5000 e-/pix in F090W and 34,000 e-/pix in F444W, assuming a high-background region near the ecliptic plane.

NIRISS flats are taken in parallel -- two epochs in F200W, and one epoch each for F090W, F115W, F150W, and F444W.

A Special Requirement is set to space the epochs throughout Cycle 2.