---
id: 4445
proposal_type: "ddt"
cycle: 1
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 4.9
program_title: "Revealing the nature of the exceptional GRB 230307A: nearby nucleosynthesis or a primordial explosion?"
type: ""
---
# 4445 - Revealing the nature of the exceptional GRB 230307A: nearby nucleosynthesis or a primordial explosion?
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4445
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                      | Observing Template              | Science Target      |
| :------------------------- | :------------------------------ | :------------------ |
| NIRSpec Fixed Slit         | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (1) GRB230307A      |
| NIRCam Imaging             | NIRCam Imaging                  | (1) GRB230307A      |

---

## ABSTRACT

We request JWST observations of the remarkable GRB 230307A, one of the brightest GRBs ever detected, and one where extensive ground-based and JWST observations offer two plausible solutions to the burst's origin. Firstly, the faint afterglow of the blast evolved from blue to red and then faded rapidly. This is consistent with a kilonova in which a compact object binary was ejected from a galaxy ~40 kpc away in projection at a relatively local distance of ~290 Mpc. JWST observations show the source to be very red, notionally in keeping with the local interpretation. However, these JWST observations also show a second solution -- emission lines from a faint, underlying galaxy at z=3.87. Although the probability of chance alignment is small in this case, the inferred energetics are extreme, with isotropic equivalent energy E_iso > 10^56 erg an order of magnitude more energetic than any other GRB, comparable to the energies suggested for Population III bursts. Given the rarity, the origin of GRB 230307A remains unclear but can be determined by a new epoch of JWST observations. These will either i) show the source to brighten due to an underlying supernova at z=3.87, ii) show the source to remain constant, indicating the (relatively) bright red source seen in JWST is, in fact, all distant galaxy and not kilonova, and so securing z=3.87 or iii) show the source to fade rapidly, leaving only a much fainter (and so much more likely to arise by chance) galaxy in the background. This scenario would demonstrate a kilonova origin. GRB 230307A is one of the most remarkable GRBs ever detected, and these modest (few hours) JWST observations can conclusively determine its nature.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Our observational strategy is simple. We will obtain observations of GRB 230307A with both NIRSPEC and NIRCAM.

For NIRSPEC we will conduct fixed slit spectroscopy with the prism. We will acquire on a nearby star, and then offset the telescope to the afterglow position as it is too faint for direct acquistion.

Once acquired we will undertake approximately 3600s of science observations with a direct copy of observations taken under GO 4434. In particular we will use the 0.4" slit, NRSRAPID2 reads, 60 reads per integration and for integrations.

To supplement this data we will obtain NIRCAM imaging observations. We will obtain observations in F115W, F150W, F277W, and F444W with the MEDIUM2 reads, 3 groups per integration, 1 integration per exposure and 6 dither positions to enable some sub-pixel dithering and PSF recovery. We will repeat this observation block twice for the F150W and F277W observaitons to obtain the most sensitive constraints on supernovae and once for F115W and F444W for the most senstive KN constraints.