---
id: 4446
proposal_type: "ddt"
cycle: 1
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 10.5
program_title: "SN H0pe: Independent Measurement of H0 by the Time Delay of a Multiply-imaged Supernova"
type: ""
---
# 4446 - SN H0pe: Independent Measurement of H0 by the Time Delay of a Multiply-imaged Supernova
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4446
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label      | Observing Template            | Science Target        |
| :--------- | :---------------------------- | :-------------------- |
| MSA_G165   | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (8) msa_g165_cat_fix |
|            | NIRCam Imaging                | (9) SNH0pe-2b         |
|            | NIRCam Imaging                | (9) SNH0pe-2b         |

## ABSTRACT

We serendipitously discovered a bright (AB ~ 24 mag), z~2 supernova (SN) Ia candidate in JWST/NIRCam imaging acquired on 2023 March 30 that is triply-imaged (2a, 2b, 2c) and named "H0pe." Follow-up is time critical: if confirmed, SN Hope matches the highest redshift SN Ia ever discovered, and offers the extremely rare opportunity to measure H0 using time delays from a multiply-imaged SN Ia but with reduced systematics because of cluster-scale lensing. JWST rapid follow-up observations are needed to:

1) Measure the time delay of a multiply-imaged SN Ia. The model light curves predict for 2a to be already fading but still detectable to SNR~5, and 2b and 2c to be caught between the first and second IR peaks. Image 2b will peak again May 12-June 12 and be brightest in F277W, requiring JWST (before the visibility cutoff on May 31);

2) The time delays (~50 and ~100 days) are long enough to enable a direct H0 measurement with ~10% precision, with systematics distinct from alternative probes and galaxy-scale time delay cosmography. SN Hope is only the second multiply-imaged SN with these characteristics, and the first of probable Type Ia;

3) Analyze SN Ia spectrum. Crucial diagnostic absorption lines redshift to wavelengths >1.8 microns, requiring NIRSpec. Applying the best-fit time delays from our most precise lens model yields a Type Ia classification probability of>90%. The spectrum is needed to assign the SN type.

SN Hope promises an unambiguous measurement of H0, and it matches the record for the brightest (magnification factor up to 10) and most distant SN Ia. This is a unique opportunity and must not be lost.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose 2 epochs to observe a new multiply-imaged SN Ia candidate. The first epoch uses NIRSpec MSA with the G140M and G235M grisms and the PRISM to obtain spectra of the SN images to type the supernova. Also in the first epoch is 4 filter pairs of NIRCam imaging to catch image 2b at its second rest-frame near-IR peak. The second epoch contains only NIRCam imaging, the same 4 filter pairs but with slightly longer exposure times to account for a fading light curve. In sum, we will measure H0 through the measurement of time delays.