---
id: 4449
proposal_type: "calibration"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: ""
program_title: "CAL-NRC-210  Spectral Calibration"
type: ""
---
# 4449 - CAL-NRC-210  Spectral Calibration
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4449
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                      | Observing Template              | Science Target   |
| :------------------------- | :------------------------------ | :--------------- |
| NIRCam Grism Mod A SHORT   | NIRCam Engineering Imaging      | (1) SMP-LMC-58   |
| NIRCam Grism Mod A LONG    | NIRCam Engineering Imaging      | (1) SMP-LMC-58   |
| NIRCam Grism Mod B SHORT   | NIRCam Engineering Imaging      | (1) SMP-LMC-58   |
| NIRCam Grism Mod B LONG    | NIRCam Engineering Imaging      | (1) SMP-LMC-58   |

## ABSTRACT

This program will monitor the calibration of NIRCam's long wavelength (LW) grism, including wavelength calibration and the line-spread function (LSF) characterization. The wavelength solution will be determined by observing a planetary nebula (PN) in the LMC, which has a weak continuum and a rich set of strong spectral lines. The PN is also sufficiently compact to enable the LSF to be measured. The same target was observed both in Commissioning and Cycle 1. We include both grisms in Cycle 2 (GRISMC and GRISMR), on both modules, over the full NIRCam wavelength range.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This calibration program is provisional and may change in response to system developments and the final Cycle 2 science program.

We are obtaining full-frame Grism images of spectral calibrator SMP-LMC-58, a planetary nebula in the LMC.

EXPOSURE SETUP: BRIGHT1, 5 groups, GRISMR and GRISMC with F322W2 and F444W. Direct images are in F405N. Achieve S/N up to 200 per wavelength in grism mode with both F322W2 and F444W

DIRECT IMAGES: We include one direct image in each observation, using the Engineering Imaging template.

DITHERS: INTRAMODULEX, 4 dithers

SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS: We include offsets to place the target at detector locations that will ensure the full spectrum for both GRISMR and GRISMC falls on the detector.

We put the long-wavelength and short-wavelength observations into different observations since the target needs to move on a different spot on the detector to ensure the full spectrum is captured in each case.