---
id: 4450
proposal_type: "calibration"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: ""
program_title: "CAL-NRC-211  Grism Backgrounds"
type: ""
---
# 4450 - CAL-NRC-211  Grism Backgrounds
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4450
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :---- | :----------------- | :------------- |
| N/A   | NIRCam Engineering Imaging | (1) ECLIPTIC-RA12 |

---

## ABSTRACT

This program will collect spectra of the sky background in a sparsely populated star field in the ecliptic plane using both NIRCam grisms. By comparing background subtracted versus non-subtracted archival NIRCam transit spectroscopy, we will inform the exoplanet community for the limitations introduced by the sky background at NIRCam wavelengths. The data and results from this program will establish a background calibration reference file and improve the NIRCam observing strategy of future exoplanet observations.
This calibration program may change in response to system developments and the final Cycle 2 science program.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Full array grism spectra in Module A will be collected for 16 dithers (using the mosaic property of APT) in a sparsely populated star field in the ecliptic plane. These observations have no timing constraints or special requirements. Observations may be obtained during any of the available visibility windows as identified in the visit planner with a preference for the soonest in time. Given the goal of the program is to establish a median combined spectrum of the sky background that is free of stars, there is no need of target acquisition.