---
id: 4451
proposal_type: "calibration"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: ""
program_title: "CAL-NRC-214  SW+LW Coronagraphy"
type: ""
---
# 4451 - CAL-NRC-214  SW+LW Coronagraphy
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4451
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Folder                 | Label                                      | Observing Template             | Science Target |
| :--------------------- | :----------------------------------------- | :----------------------------- | :------------- |
| MASKLWB - NARROW       | 51 Eri - NIRCam - MASKLWB - NARROW         | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging   | (1) 51-Eri     |
| MASKLWB - NARROW       | Ref star - NIRCam - MASKLWB - NARROW       | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging   | (2) HD30562    |
| MASKLWB                | 51 Eri - NIRCam - MASKLWB                  | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging   | (1) 51-Eri     |
| MASKLWB                | Ref star - NIRCam - MASKLWB                | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging   | (2) HD30562    |
| MASKSWB - NARROW       | 51 Eri - NIRCam - MASKSWB - NARROW         | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging   | (1) 51-Eri     |
| MASKSWB - NARROW       | Ref star - NIRCam - MASKSWB - NARROW       | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging   | (2) HD30562    |
| MASKSWB                | 51 Eri - NIRCam - MASKSWB                  | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging   | (1) 51-Eri     |
| MASKSWB                | Ref star - NIRCam - MASKSWB                | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging   | (2) HD30562    |
| MASK210R               | 51 Eri - NIRCam - MASK210R                 | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging   | (1) 51-Eri     |
| MASK210R               | Ref star - NIRCam - MASK210R               | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging   | (2) HD30562    |
| CLEAR                  | 51 Eri - NIRCam - CLEAR                    | NIRCam Imaging                 | (1) 51-Eri     |
| CLEAR                  | Ref star - NIRCam - CLEAR                  | NIRCam Imaging                 | (2) HD30562    |

---

## ABSTRACT

This program aims at determining the best strategies to use for most high contrast science cases where NIRCam coronagraphy is considered. The primary goals are to provide the community with: (1) advice on observation strategies, e.g., when (not) to use the bar, when to use the small round mask, etc., and (2) information about NIRCam Coronagraph performance.
The measurements will also feed a public and documented PSF library and will be complementary to the GTO 1412: "Characterizing 51 Eridani Exoplanetary System". The 51 Eri b exoplanet is ideal for this calibration program because it very challenging both in flux and angular separation. This program should be carried out once all target acquisitions are optimized (TA centroiding algorithm, small angle manoeuver repeatability). Having the dual SW/LW coronagraphy will provide insight about the data collected on the non-optimized channel. We will use results from this program to refine and calibrate our simulation tools (pyNRC and PanCAKE). The ultimate goal is to build an interactive tool similar to JIST for NIRCam Coronagraphs (which can then be expanded to MIRI Coronagraphs).
This calibration program may change in response to system developments and the final Cycle 2 science program.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

**METHOD:**
Testing the small Inner Working Angle (IWA) setups against each other and in the fairest manner
GTO 1412 made use of the MASKLWB mask at the fiducial pointing override position “NARROW”.
Since it is a lot of setups and we want to mitigate the total time, we will NOT use roll subtraction and we will choose readouts that yield ~800s on source for 51 Eri and ~800-900s on source total for the reference star with small grid dithers (SGD, 60 to 100s per position depending on the number from 5 to 9).
Also, it has been demonstrated that sensitivity at small IWA (typically < 1”) does not improve much with exposure time (Fig. 1) and so we can make this program very efficient, spending about only ~800-900s per filter.
We will do 9-pt SGD for the round masks and 5-pt for the bar mask, the max possible as RDI with SGD proved to be the winning strategy for the best contrast and detection limits at small IWA (Girard et al. 2022 and Carter et al. 2023 in prep).
We will do 3 filters each time (LW and SW):
o SW wavelength: best IWA, F250M paired with F182M
o Nominal wavelength: TA, done often (PID 1441 commissioning), F210M and F335M paired with F210M
o Large wavelength: best for detectability of exoplanets but least adapted to small mask and biggest lambda/D, 480M, paired with 200W). F444W is the best for detectability but yields saturation on the PSF side lobes and core
Note: we are NOT using ALL masks. We are not using MASK430R which is not a small IWA setup and not using MASK335R because it has already be characterized (though not with the SW channel).

**TARGET(s):**
Beside measuring a contrast curve, we want to test the “usability” of the mode. Indeed, PSF subtraction residuals in the speckle limited regime can be messy and the contrast measurement alone does not reflect entirely the ability of a given data set to recover a faint companion. There is often a degree of ambiguity, especially in zones where the transmission is heavily reduced by the edge of the coronagraphic mask as to whether a brighter blob is a real point source, a speckle, an unfiltered bad pixel enhanced by the post-processing algorithm, etc. The unocculted coronagraphic PSF itself has a shape with side lobes which are different between round and bar configurations. Though the bar masks are design to operate down to 4 lambda/D and the round mask down to 6 lambda/D, we, so far, have found the data from the round mask “cleaner” and easier to interpret. Of course, the amount of bar data has been limited and rather sub-optimal due to target acquisition errors that we think will be fixed before undertaking this program.
The best option for a known companion at very high contrast and small separation is:
51 Eri: Kmag~4.5. Planet b at ~0.31” with Kmag~18, extremely challenging + Reference Star HD30562 Kmag~4.3. Same target as GTO 1412 (done in MASKLWB NARROW only with LW filters: F335M, F410M, F430M, F460M)
Macintosh et al. 2014, Rajan et al. 2017
Good: Challenging Separation, adequate PA (scheduling, orientation).
So so: Super challenging contrast (might only be detected in a couple LW filters).
It's a science target (data will be public and redundant but might need coordination with PI Perrin, at STScI). The analysis of this program will not be published or made available to the community before the GTO program has published their data.
Other, not ideal backup options:
HD206893: Kmag~5.6 (F star). Brown Dwarf B at ~0.3" with Kmag~15, (9-10 mag at 2µm 7-8 mag at 4µm), easy+ Reference Star HD205827 Kmag~5.4 (K star). Same target as Cycle 1 GO/CAL 1843 (NIRISS AMI, F480M in common).
Milli et al. 2016, Delorme et al. 2017, (has an inner planet but not detectable with NIRCam/Coronagraphy < 0.1")
Good: Challenging Separation
So so: Easy contrast
Bad: Position Angle not adequate for the bar (always ~aligned/behind)=> not good for a fair comparison Round/Bar. It's a science target (data will be public and redundant but might need coordination with NIRISS/AMI PI Kammer/PID 1843, at STScI).
Separations and PAs can be checked for given observing dates at
http://whereistheplanet.com

HD114174: Kmag~5.2 (G star). White Dwarf B at ~0.45-0.49” with Kmag~15.5, (~10 mag at ~3µm), easy+ Reference Star HD 111733 K~5.1 (G star). Same target as Commissioning NRC-31 1441 (MASK335R and MASKLWB, F335M only the latter common).
Crepp et al. 2014, Gratton et al. 2021
Good: Not a science target, easy to schedule, already done in Commissioning.
Bad: Separation (~0.5") slightly too large to test smallest IWA.
As for now the APT program is designed with 51 Eri but we can easily change it to HD206893 (less challenging though not a great target for the bars are the companion is almost behind it) or HD114174.

Testing the small IWA setups against each other and in the fairest manner
GTO 1412 made use of the MASKLWB mask at the fiducial pointing override position “NARROW” which is the narrowest end of the LW bar mask. The idea was to access the smallest IWA possible, yet make use of the LW advantage for young, luminous, giant exoplanet detectability.
We hence want to test other coronagraphic setups with similar IWA capability on the same system to answer questions that arose in the community already at the Cycle 2 deadline and will arise again in subsequent cycles.
The end goal is to have complete, “extrapolatable" contrast lookup tables for all masks, filters, field positions around the mask, TA errors, saturation levels. It would take too long to acquire all the data on-sky but if we “align” our simulation tools (surely pyNRC, maybe PanCAKE) to on-sky observations (in terms of PSF shape and photometry), we can simulate everything and even have the capacity of implementing a tool like JIST but for coronagraphy (not existent).
Finally we also want to test those small IWA coronagraphic configuration against:
- CLEAR imaging with the SUB64P mode (4 NB filters with good Nyquist sampling) and marginal saturation in the center (5 to 10 pixels)
- NIRISS AMI (Cycle 1 CAL PID 1843)
Keep building a legacy PSF reference library

We are still at the early stages of science operations with JWST. There were not so many NIRCam Coronagraphy approved programs in ERS/GTO/Cycle 1 and most of them used the same modes:
1. MASK335R and LW filters
2. MASK430R (only 1 program)
3. MASKLWB: 3 programs with sub-optimal data
4. MASK210R: 1 or 2 programs (to be verified)
5. CLEAR: we also want to test a non-coronagraphic setup
In cycle 2 the target acquisition (TA) repeatability and error should be improved (current activities to modify the centroiding algorithm parameter AND to determine the global bias error for each mask).
It will be a good time to produce PSFs in all settings and populate a legacy PSF reference library that can be used when the TA failed on the reference star or as complement to get better reference differential imaging (RDI) which is the post-processing technique of choice in the official (Coron3) and community (e.g. spaceKLIP) level3 pipelines.
Note: Special Requirement offsets for optimal TA accuracies will be updated in June, once the analysis of Prog 1482 is 100% complete.