---
id: 4454
proposal_type: "calibration"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: ""
program_title: "CAL-NRC-230  SW+LW Functional Checkout"
type: ""
---
# 4454 - CAL-NRC-230  SW+LW Functional Checkout
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4454
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label        | Observing Template            | Science Target                      |
| :----------- | :---------------------------- | :---------------------------------- |
| STAR1, STARE | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (1) HD-114174-STAR1-COMPANION     |
| STAR2, SGD   | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (2) HD-111733-STAR2                 |
| STAR1, STARE | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (1) HD-114174-STAR1-COMPANION     |
| STAR2, SGD   | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (2) HD-111733-STAR2                 |
| STAR1, STARE | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (1) HD-114174-STAR1-COMPANION     |
| STAR2, SGD   | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (2) HD-111733-STAR2                 |
| STAR1, STARE | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (1) HD-114174-STAR1-COMPANION     |
| STAR2, SGD   | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (2) HD-111733-STAR2                 |
| STAR1, STARE | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (1) HD-114174-STAR1-COMPANION     |
| STAR2, SGD   | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (2) HD-111733-STAR2                 |

---

## ABSTRACT

Perform an end-to-end test of NIRCam Dual Channel (LW+SW) Coronagraphy (available in late Cycle 1) for each occulting mask to demonstrate basic functionality of the mode, correct commanding of new subarrays, and proper data flow and processing through DMS.

This calibration program may change in response to system developments and the final Cycle 2 science program.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

**STRATEGY**
We repeat part of the NIRCam coronagraphic-suppression verification program executed during post-launch Commissioning (CAR-907, NRC-31, PID 1441) to demonstrate the successful implementation of dual-channel (i.e., simultaneous LW and SW) NIRCam coronagraphy in late Cycle 1. The scope of this program is limited to the verification of OSS commanding (as implemented via OPGS), DMS processing of science and engineering products, and basic coronagraphic performance via Reference-star Differential Imaging (RDI). Assessment of the Angular Differential Imaging (ADI) performance in dual-channel mode is deferred to our Cycle 2 Calibration program. Consequently, this program will be executed using a single PA_V3 orientation, rather than the roll-offset approach used in PID 1441.

We use the same "science" target (HD 114174: G3IV + WD close binary, K=5.2) and one of the three PSF-reference stars (HD 111733: K=5.1) used in PID 1441 to allow direct comparison of the performances of the single-channel and dual-channel modes. These targets are visible between mid-May and early-July 2023, a window well-suited to the initial public offering of dual-mode coronagraphy in Cycle 2. Likewise, we use the same Small Grid Dither (SGD) patterns used in PID 1441 for the PSF-reference images to assess their effects on the simultaneous SW and LW images for each occulter, as well as the expected improvements in target acquisition (TA) resulting from the recent changes to the TA centroid algorithm for the bar occulters.

**OBSERVING SEQUENCE**
For each occulter, we obtain coronagraphic images of the binary "science" target at the nominal TA position (i.e., no SGDs) and the PSF-reference star at the maximum number of SGD positions for that occulter (i.e., 9-PT-CIRCLE for round masks and 5-PT-BAR for bar masks). These maximal SGD patterns mitigate the effect of presently large TA uncertainties on coronagraphic-contrast measurements.

For the round occulters, simultaneous SW and LW images are recorded through the nominal filters F210M and F335M (for MASK210R and MASK335R) or F430M (for MASK430R), respectively.

For the bar occulters, multiple sets of simultaneous SW and LW images are recorded for both the science and PSF-reference targets to investigate (1) the coronagraphic suppression along the bars and (2) the effect of changing filters at a fixed bar position. Two positions along the LW bar match those used in PID 1441 to allow direct comparison of the efficacy of the centroid algorithms used then and now. The filter combinations used at each bar position are:

MASKLWB: (F182M, F250M) -> (F182M, F335M) -> (F210M, F335M) -> (F210M, F480M)
MASKSWB: (F182M, F250M) -> (F210M, F250M) -> (F210M, F335M)

As in PID 1441, the readout patterns for the round and bar occulters are SHALLOW4 and BRIGHT2, respectively. The durations of all "science" exposures are ~1700-1900 sec; the total duration of the dithered PSF-reference exposures closely matches those of the corresponding "science" exposures.

All observations include RAPID astrometric confirmation images to determine precisely the positions of the stars behind each mask.