---
id: 4456
proposal_type: "calibration"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: ""
program_title: "CAL-NRS-202  Dark Monitor Subarray"
type: ""
---
# 4456 - CAL-NRS-202  Dark Monitor Subarray
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4456
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label              | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :----------------- | :----------------- | :------------- |
| ALLSLITS           | NIRSpec Dark       | NONE           |
| SUBS200A1 - GEN    | NIRSpec Dark       | NONE           |
| SUBS200A1 - G395M  | NIRSpec Dark       | NONE           |
| SUBS200A2 - GEN    | NIRSpec Dark       | NONE           |
| SUBS200A2 - G395M  | NIRSpec Dark       | NONE           |
| SUBS400A1 - GEN    | NIRSpec Dark       | NONE           |
| SUBS400A1 - G395M  | NIRSpec Dark       | NONE           |
| SUB2048 - GEN      | NIRSpec Dark       | NONE           |
| SUB2048 - G395M    | NIRSpec Dark       | NONE           |
| SUB2048 - G235H    | NIRSpec Dark       | NONE           |
| SUB512             | NIRSpec Dark       | NONE           |
| SUB512S            | NIRSpec Dark       | NONE           |
| SUB32 - Epoch 1/5  | NIRSpec Dark       | NONE           |
| SUB32 - Epoch 2/5  | NIRSpec Dark       | NONE           |
| SUB32 - Epoch 3/5  | NIRSpec Dark       | NONE           |
| SUB32 - Epoch 4/5  | NIRSpec Dark       | NONE           |
| SUB32 - Epoch 5/5  | NIRSpec Dark       | NONE           |

---

## ABSTRACT

Obtain NIRSpec darks of sufficient integration length in NRSRAPID readout mode for all used subarrays in order to create / update the SUPERBIAS, DARK, and READNOISE reference files (subarray) for NIRSpec.

This calibration program may change in response to system developments and the final Cycle 2 science program.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

**OBJECTIVE:** Obtain NIRSpec darks of sufficient integration length in NRSRAPID readout mode for all used subarrays in order to create / update the SUPERBIAS, DARK, and READNOISE reference files for NIRSpec.

**METHOD:** Take darks of appropriate integration length using the NIRSpec Dark template, executed as internal parallels. Typically, 30 integrations of sufficient length (see below) will be obtained for each used subarray / disperser combination to be able to create updated bias/dark reference files for subarrays used in cycle 2.

**JUSTIFICATION:** Cycle 1 calibration program confirmed that the dark is changing over time, with the most prominent change being the accumulation of additional hot pixels, likely due to cosmic ray induced radiation damage, with an increase is approximately 100 new hot pixels per detector per month. We therefore need to create new reference data on a regular basis. This program will obtain the necessary data to generate dark and bias reference files for all used subarray / disperser combinations in cycle 2. The length of the integrations for each used subarray / disperser combination is matched to the longest requested integrations from cycle 1 GO and CAL programs, as cycle 2 GO requests are not yet available. For most subarrays we target 30 integrations. For the SUB32 subarray we plan to obtain five epochs in total, as this one is the most used for WATA and unmasked (new) hot pixels can impact TA performance.

**TIMING CONSTRAINTS:** Most observations are not time constrained, only exception being the dark data for ALLSLITS and SUB32, where the 'between' and/or ‘after' special requirements are used to ensure that multiple epochs over cycle 2 will be obtained. All time constrained observations have some 'overlap' between epochs to easy scheduling. While the order of the remaining data acquisition is not constrained in APT, it would be beneficial to complete given subarray / disperser combination before going to the next one, parallel slot durations permitting. Darks are impacted by detector instability whenever a readout mode switch occurs, e.g., from traditional or IRS2 full frame to subarray mode or back. This leads to less than ideal (and potentially even unusable darks) when a switch happens for the dark to be taken. Therefore, it would be highly beneficial if darks could be scheduled so that subarray darks are taken in parallel slots when the detectors should already be in subarray readout mode, assuming a nominal execution of the observation plan.