---
id: 4460
proposal_type: "calibration"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: ""
program_title: "CAL-NRS-205  Slit-loss Extension"
type: ""
---
# 4460 - CAL-NRS-205  Slit-loss Extension
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4460
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                                   | Observing Template                  | Science Target      |
| :-------------------------------------- | :---------------------------------- | :------------------ |
| S1600A1 slitlosses                      | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy     | (1) 1808347         |
| S200A1 slitlosses                       | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy     | (2) 1743045         |
| S200A1 FFLT-G140M/F100LP                | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy     | (2) 1743045         |
| S200A1 slitlosses                       | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy     | (2) 1743045         |
| S200A2 slitlosses                       | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy     | (2) 1743045         |
| S200A2 FFLT-G140M/F100LP                | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy     | (2) 1743045         |
| S200A2 slitlosses                       | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy     | (2) 1743045         |
| S400A1 slitlosses & FFLT-G140M/F100LP | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy     | (2) 1743045         |
| S400A1 slitlosses                       | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy     | (2) 1743045         |
| IFU slitlosses                          | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy            | (3) SF1615+001A     |

---

## ABSTRACT

This program will obtain observations of a spectrophotometric standard star in order to further characterize wavelength dependent throughput variations as a function of position in the slit for FS and IFU modes. Data will be taken for the fixed slit 2-point and 5-point dither patterns and the 21st through 40th points in the IFU cycling pattern and will build on the data already obtained in commissioning (the fixed slit 3-point dither pattern and the first 20 points of the IFU cycling pattern).
This calibration program is provisional and may change in response to system developments and final science program.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This activity consists of positioning a spectro-photometric star in a given NIRSpec aperture with the PRISM/CLEAR configuration and a short dither pattern to derive the first characterization of slit and diffraction losses. The pathloss characterization will then be translated from the PRISM/CLEAR observations to all other disperser/filter combinations.

Currently there are only a small number of spectro-photometric standard stars recommended for JWST calibration. We have identified the suitable ones based on their visibility and brightness, and also additional back-up targets in case it is needed based on scheduling constraints. Most known standard stars are bright enough to cause saturation in a significant part of spectra taken with PRISM/CLEAR configuration. Therefore, the observations to characterize the slit-losses will be done on a different spectrophotometric star. Final target selection will be based on the targets during commissioning and for the Absolute Flux Calibration programs and the Nirspec F-flat characterization program. For the fixed-slits, subarrays will also be used.

The observations for the FS, and IFU modes will be obtained as follows:

i) FS: for the four fixed slits, spectra of the same spectro-photometric standard star will be obtained with the PRISM/CLEAR configuration in the 2 and 5 point dither patterns to get a preliminary slitloss measurement for non-centered sources. All data will be obtained in subarray mode using NRSRAPID readout pattern. Target acquisition will be self-WATA with SUB32 subarray, F110W filter, and NRSRAPID readout, to avoid saturating the relatively bright standards (J = 11.65-12.98 Vega mag).

ii) IFU: Observations to obtain measurements of the IFU diffraction losses will be done using the PRISM/CLEAR configuration and a spectro-photometric standard star suitable in brightness, using the second 20 points of the 60-point cycling. Full frame data using NRSIRS2RAPID. Target acquisition will be self-WATA with SUB32 subarrar, CLEAR filter, and NRSRAPID readout, to obtain SN~20 on the J = 15.26 Vega mag standard.