---
id: 4462
proposal_type: "calibration"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: ""
program_title: "CAL-NRS-207  Instrument Model"
type: ""
---
# 4462 - CAL-NRS-207  Instrument Model
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4462
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                    | Observing Template    | Science Target |
| :----------------------- | :-------------------- | :------------- |
| NIRSpec Model (gratings) | NIRSpec Internal Lamp | NONE           |
| mid-cycle (MOS only)     | NIRSpec Internal Lamp | NONE           |

---

## ABSTRACT

From a set of internal CAA lamp exposures, this activity, along with the GWA tilt calibration monitor program, will serve to monitor the NIRSpec instrument model during Cycle 2. The instrument model is a parametric model of NIRSpec optical geometry and is used to trace, extract and rectify the spectra and provides WCS information for each pixel in a 2D spectrum. Most model components are expected to remain stable, but a limited monitor will guard against changes not traceable via existing observations.

This calibration program is provisional and may change in response to system developments and the analysis of the Cycle 1 monitoring program (PID 1489).

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The crucial aspect of this activity is that the data for each grating must be obtained without moving the GWA between exposures.

For each of the six NIRSpec gratings, exposures will be obtained with the CAA REF lamp and the appropriate LINE and FLAT lamps through one customized MSA configuration. In addition, a similar set of lamps will be used to obtain IFU exposures (plus associated "background" exposures through the all-closed MSA with IFU closed). For the PRISM, we will obtain a similar data set, but using CAA lamps FLAT5 and LINE4, as the PRISM spans the entire NIRSpec wavelength range. The treatment of GWA tilt calibration monitor will be conducted as a separate activity. The cadence still needs to be determined but there are no indications of a significant change in the model solution with time, hence as of now a once per Cycle minitoring appears to be suffcient. This will be subject to change if a significant drift will be determined.

We added a second Observation to confirm a possible trending of the model.