---
id: 4468
proposal_type: "calibration"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: ""
program_title: "CAL-NRS-214  MSA Optical Shorts Detection"
type: ""
---
# 4468 - CAL-NRS-214  MSA Optical Shorts Detection
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4468
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                                                     | Observing Template         | Science Target |
| :-------------------------------------------------------- | :------------------------- | :------------- |
| Exposures with current RTS 211 mask applied (control)     | NIRSpec Internal Lamp      | NONE           |
| Load All Test Masks and Activate RTS 195 (first test mask) | Realtime Commanding        | NONE           |
| Exposures with RTS 195 Activated (first test mask applied) | NIRSpec Internal Lamp      | NONE           |
| Activate RTS 196 (second test mask)                       | Realtime Commanding        | NONE           |
| Exposures with RTS 196 Activated (second test mask applied) | NIRSpec Internal Lamp      | NONE           |
| Activate RTS 197 (third test mask)                        | Realtime Commanding        | NONE           |
| Exposures with RTS 197 Activated (third test mask applied) | NIRSpec Internal Lamp      | NONE           |
| Activate RTS 198 (fourth test mask)                       | Realtime Commanding        | NONE           |
| Exposures with RTS 198 Activated (fourth test mask applied) | NIRSpec Internal Lamp      | NONE           |
| Re-activate RTS 211 (original mask)                       | Realtime Commanding        | NONE           |
| Exposures with current masks applied (control)            | NIRSpec Internal Lamp      | NONE           |
| Application of test mask 1                                | NIRSpec MSA Masking        | NONE           |
| Exposures with test mask 1 applied                        | NIRSpec Internal Lamp      | NONE           |
| Application of test mask 2                                | NIRSpec MSA Masking        | NONE           |
| Exposures with test mask 2 applied                        | NIRSpec Internal Lamp      | NONE           |
| Application of test mask 3                                | NIRSpec MSA Masking        | NONE           |
| Exposures with test mask 3 applied                        | NIRSpec Internal Lamp      | NONE           |
| Application of test mask 4                                | NIRSpec MSA Masking        | NONE           |
| Exposures with test mask 4 applied                        | NIRSpec Internal Lamp      | NONE           |
| Restoration of original masks                             | NIRSpec MSA Masking        | NONE           |

---

## ABSTRACT

MANDATORY CAVEAT: This calibration program may change in response to system developments and the final Cycle 2 science program.

Contingency program for MSA OSD. When a new MSA short appears, if it is *not* detectable in telemetry, OSD diagnostic exposures should be executed in combination with test short masks in order to locate the short and mask the shutter row/column as necessary.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

**OBJECTIVE:** The MSA control electronics (MCE) sporadically suffer electrical shorts, in which an unintended (and perhaps temporary) pathway bridges circuitry from a quadrant row or column (collectively known as a line) to the substrate or another line. When a new short appears, the affected line should be identified and then masked, adding a full quadrant line to a dedicated mask in the MCE, effectively removing all the shutters in that line (171 or 365) from operations (this cannot be overruled by an MSA user pattern). If the short does not give rise to an elevation in quadrant current telemetry but is visible as thermal emission in the detector data, then the Optical Shorts Detection (OSD) should be executed: PID4468, CAL-NRS-214. (If the short is seen in telemetry, ESD can be executed instead: PID4467, CAL-NRS-213).

**METHOD:** OSD is a manual procedure in which detector data, together with knowledge of the configured MSA patterns, are analyzed to pinpoint the location of the short within the affected quadrant. Existing data generally narrows down the culprit line to a set of 3–6 possibilities (e.g. +/-1 shutter in both row/column axes). A set of test short masks are constructed, each including one of these possibilities. The onboard portion of OSD then systematically activates each test short mask in turn, for each, executing a small number of dark exposures through special diagnostic MSA patterns (usually the two CHKBD3x3 patterns that ensure every line is probed in isolation). The procedure should end on the expected/best possibility, as this will remain on the MCE until after the detector data has been downlinked and analyzed. Analysis merely involves finding the test mask for which neither CHKBD3x3 pattern causes the glow. If the true solution was not the expected possibility, then the new short mask needs to be uplinked.

[An approved new feature of the ground segment (OSS, APT, OPGS), scheduled to be in place before Cycle 2, will enable changes to the onboard short mask within an OP sequence. This will facilitate a much-simplified procedure for executing OSD. Until then, OSD must be executed when in DSN contact periods, interleaving real-time mask handling with the OSS exposure visits.]

Note that the test masks could also be used to recheck previously masked optical shorts, simply by amending the test mask to remove the relevant line. Care would need to be taken that any such changes do not have an impact on the anlysis of the new short (e.g. an old bright short could drown out the signal of the new short-of-interest). However, as OSD always sees all 4 quadrants, OSD re-checks could be a lot more common and efficient than those from ESD, as that can only occur one quadrant at a time. Only shorts appearing since launch will be considered initially for rechecking, with rows (dispersion direction) given priority as they have the highest impact on multiplexing.

**JUSTIFICATION:** Shorts may cause unsafe currents on the MCE, contaminate the NIRSpec detector output with bright thermal emission and/or result in unpredictable shutter behavior that could degrade science data. Furthermore, bright shorts may even contaminate NIRCam detector output. Masking the location of known shorts is a reliable method to prevent the short reoccurring and mitigate symptoms.

**CYCLE 1 CALIBRATION:** A contingency program in Cycle 1 (PID1490) included each execution of OSD as required. Full OSD was only executed once in Cycle 1. Additionally, seven instances of dark diagnostics using the existing onboard short mask (to check for thermal emission immediately after an ESD or during a transient short event) were also executed under the umbrella of optical shorts detection. It is assumed that this would continue in Cycle 2 as needed.

**TIMING CONSTRAINTS:** Generally, we aim to execute OSD at the start of the next uplinked OP package, or at least before the first MSA visit of that package. However, the criticality of masking a new short is actually more complex, depending on its strength (is it dangerous to hardware, or how much of the detector is affected by the thermal emission?) and its location relative to upcoming patterns (a short will only manifest when there is a potential across the fault, so not all MSA patterns will “trigger” the glow).

**DURATION (total hours):** A pair of dark diagnostic CHKBD3x3 exposures take 945s (0.26 hours; charged time). A full OSD with 6 test masks and the OP-driven mask handling is estimated to take ~3 hours [This is a conservative estimate TBC once the new OP-driven mask handling scripts are available].

**COMMENTS:** Dark diagnostics exposures can be executed as slew parallels. The new OP-driven mask handling template should also be executed as slew parallels.