---
id: 4469
proposal_type: "calibration"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: ""
program_title: "CAL-NRS-215  MSA Shorts Checking"
type: ""
---
# 4469 - CAL-NRS-215  MSA Shorts Checking
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4469
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :---------------------- | :------------------- | :------------- |
|                         |                      |                |

## ABSTRACT

MANDATORY CAVEAT: This calibration program may change in response to system developments and the final Cycle 2 science program.

Program for re-checking previously masked shorts, as the expectation is that some (many?) could have been transient, and the shutters could be resurrected for science operations.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

OBJECTIVE: The MSA control electronics (MCE) sporadically suffer electrical shorts, in which an unintended (and perhaps temporary) pathway bridges circuitry from a quadrant row or column (collectively known as a line) to the substrate or another line. When a new short appears, the affected line should be identified and then masked, adding a full quadrant line to a dedicated mask in the MCE, effectively removing all the shutters in that line (171 or 365) from operations (this cannot be overruled by an MSA user pattern). This calibration program comprises two components: 1) re-checking previously masked shorts, as the expectation is that some (many?) could have been transient, and the shutters could be resurrected for science operations; 2) preventative short detection, whereby ESD is executed before a very long MOS science program starts, especially after a period of inactivity, to maximize the likelihood of a clean MSA.

METHOD: Re-checking of shorts follows the method described in the primary contingency OSD (CAL-NRS-214) program, with a single test mask activated, which removes the line(s) to be checked.

Preventative short detection executes ESD with the method identical to the primary contingency ESD program (CAL-NRS-213).

JUSTIFICATION: Short masking has, until now, been purely additive. However, transient shorts are a known phenomenon, raising the possibility that some previously masked shorts are no longer there. Short masking is currently responsible for the largest population of unusable shutters and each masked row (dispersion direction) directly impacts multiplexing. All shorts since launch have been benign (no danger to the hardware) so there is no risk in re-checking.

CYCLE 1 CALIBRATION: This is a new program for Cycle 2.

TIMING CONSTRAINTS: This program differs from the contingency ESD (CAL-NRS-213) and OSD (CAL-NRS-213) programs as it is not driven by random events, but can be injected into the timeline when most efficient or most appropriate.

DURATION (total hours): For 1 quadrant, a successful ESD (locating/masking a short) takes ~2 hours. If ESD fails to detect any new shorts, it will only take ~15 minutes. A pair of dark diagnostic CHKBD3x3 exposures take 945s+mask handling (0.26+ hours; charged time). [All these values TBC once new nearest-neighbor NRSMASKMAIN and mask handling capabilities are tested in flight].

COMMENTS: Until the new OP-driven mask handling ATP template and OSS script are available, this program should remain on hold.