---
id: 4470
proposal_type: "calibration"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: ""
program_title: "CAL-NIS-202  Imaging Deep PSF Wings"
type: ""
---
# 4470 - CAL-NIS-202  Imaging Deep PSF Wings
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4470
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template        | Science Target               |
|-------|---------------------------|------------------------------|
|       | NIRISS Imaging            | (1) CL-MELOTTE-111-AV-1898 |
|       | NIRISS External Calibration | (1) CL-MELOTTE-111-AV-1898 |

## ABSTRACT

We request time to make deep imaging PSF observations of a bright, isolated star to measure the faint PSF wings. The purpose of the observations is to provide template PSFs for bright, saturated stars to allow profile fitting photometry using only the PSF wings. Such measurements have been valuable for the Spitzer Space Telescope, and in the NIRISS case are needed because most of the stars seen in imaging mode that are in existing photometric catalougues (2MASS or WISE, for example) are saturated even in short NIRISS exposures.
This calibration program may change in response to system developments and the final Cycle 2 science program.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We request a series of imaging observations of a bright, isolated star in the 12 NIRISS imaging filters. These include both full frame images where the core is saturated but which allow the wings of the PSF to be measured and a short observation in the SUB64 calibration sub-array to get a measurement of the stellar core for accurate photometry. The combination of these observations will allow tempate PSFs out to the far wings for profile-fitting photometry of saturated stars. This approach has been valuable for the Spitzer Space Telescope due to the stability of the detector and the PSF. We expect NIRISS to be similarly stable, and hence that with the PSF wing templates from this observation we will be able to make accurate photometric measurements of saturated stars in general imaging fields. This is important because most of the available all-sky photometry at the NIRISS wavelengths is for stars that will saturate in even a short NIRISS observation (the 2MASS catalogue, for example). We need this capability to allow direct comparison of NIRISS photometry to these widely used catalogues.