---
id: 4475
proposal_type: "calibration"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: ""
program_title: "CAL-NIS-208  Stability Monitoring"
type: ""
---
# 4475 - CAL-NIS-208  Stability Monitoring
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4475
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template       | Science Target        |
| :---- | :----------------------- | :-------------------- |
| 1     | NIRISS External Calibration | (1) ASTROMETRIC-FIELD |
| 3     | NIRISS External Calibration | (1) ASTROMETRIC-FIELD |
| 5     | NIRISS External Calibration | (1) ASTROMETRIC-FIELD |
| 7     | NIRISS External Calibration | (1) ASTROMETRIC-FIELD |
| 9     | NIRISS External Calibration | (1) ASTROMETRIC-FIELD |
| 11    | NIRISS External Calibration | (1) ASTROMETRIC-FIELD |

---

## ABSTRACT

We request bi-monthly observations of the LMC astrometric field for monitoring of the NIRISS photometric stability and as a quick check on the astrometric stability of the instrument. This is a continuation of cycle 1 calibation program 1515.

This calibration program may change in response to system developments and the final Cycle 2 science program.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will observe the same position near the south ecliptic pole at one month intervals to assess the stability of the NIRISS detector over time. Inter- comparison of the stellar brightness values over time should show any long term changes in the NIRISS detector response or the overall system response. While some of the stars in the field will be variable, we should be able to eliminate these and make measurements on other stars within the field of view.

The preferred target for this observation is the LMC astrometric field. This is a continuation of program 1515 in cycle 1 calibration.

**TIMING CONSTRAINTS**
We request observations at approximately 2 month intervals for the program. Each observation is given a 3 week window, and there are 5-week gaps between observations. This will prevent observations from being scheduled too close together in time. If for some reason an observation is not scheduled in the original time window there should be plenty of options for rescheduling the observations without coming too close to the other observations.

The windows assume a start of cycle 2 on 1 July 2023, but can be shifted as needed.