---
id: 4476
proposal_type: "calibration"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: ""
program_title: "CAL-NIS-210  SOSS Aperture Correction"
type: ""
---
# 4476 - CAL-NIS-210  SOSS Aperture Correction
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4476
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label               | Observing Template       | Science Target        |
| :------------------ | :----------------------- | :-------------------- |
| SOSS normal acqusition | NIRISS External Calibration | (10) TYC-4213-1116-1 |
| SOSS offset         | NIRISS External Calibration | (10) TYC-4213-1116-1 |

---

## ABSTRACT

An isolated, bright star will be observed in the NIRISS SOSS mode, but with full frame read-out and with the spectrum offset from the top of the array down to the centre so that measurements of the total signal including the far wings of the profile can be made. By comparing the total signal to the signal within the normal spectral extraction aperture the aperture corrections will be estimated for orders 1 and 2 in the SOSS mode.
This calibration program may change in response to system developments and the final Cycle 2 science program.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We request the obsevation of a bright (K=9.762) isolated star in the NIRISS SOSS mode, with the spectrum offset from the normal position "down" about 800 pixels to the centre of the full array. The purpose of the observation is to measure the wings of the spatial profile of the spectrum along the pixel y direction, which will be used to derive the aperture correction to apply to the normal spectral extractions done in science exposures. The GR700XD grism produces a highly distorted monochromatic PSF with very broad wings extending at least 200 pixels in both directions from the centre of the trace, hence this cannot be measured with the spectrum in the normal position at the top edge of the detector or with the normal SUBSTRIP256 sub-array. In principle the aperture corrections are not needed in the case where the photometric calibration and the science exposures use precisely the same extraction aperture (both in terms of the acquisition of the star to the exact same position on the detector and in terms of the rotation of the trace on the detector), but experience in cycle 1 has shown that there are small variations in the rotation and small offsets of the trace postion which make this assumption somewhat inaccurate. We therefore need on-sky observations of the spectrum in a position where we can trace the profile far beyond the usual aperture.
The program consists of a short spectral observation in the normal position followed by a much longer observation at the offset position. The initial spectrum will be used to extract the spectrum with the normal pipeline spectrum for comparison with the spectrum at the offset point which will have to be extracted with special software. This is needed to correct for any small effects on the spectrum from the offset from the normal position to the centre of the array.