---
id: 4477
proposal_type: "calibration"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: ""
program_title: "CAL-NIS-211  WFSS Contamination"
type: ""
---
# 4477 - CAL-NIS-211  WFSS Contamination
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4477
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label        | Observing Template                    | Science Target                |
| :----------- | :------------------------------------ | :---------------------------- |
|              | NIRISS Imaging                        | (1) 2MASSJ23035569-6256090    |
|              | NIRISS Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (1) 2MASSJ23035569-6256090    |
| WFSS64R      | NIRISS External Calibration         | (1) 2MASSJ23035569-6256090    |
| WFSS64C      | NIRISS External Calibration         | (1) 2MASSJ23035569-6256090    |

---

## ABSTRACT

We request observations of an isolated reasonably bright star in the NIRISS WFSS mode in order to characterize the higher spectral orders (-1, 3, and 4) that can cause contamination of science spectra. The properties of these higher orders need to specified so that the contamination corrections in the JWST data reduction pipeline can be done accurately.

The calibration consists of taking a nomal WFSS observation of the isolated star in different grisms and blocking filters.

This calibration program may change in response to system developments and the final Cycle 2 science program.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The observation uses a star of K magnitude 13.3, just above the NIRISS WFSS bright limit in the shorter wavelength filters, to characterize the additional spectral orders not used for science but needed for contamination corrections in the JWST data reduction pipeline. A short exposure per filter/grism combination (roughly 2.5 minutes per configuration, with a 4-point dither to allow removal of bad pixels in the spectra) is carried out to allow extraction of the 2-D cut-outs of the higher order spectra. Depending on the blocking filter, orders -1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 may be visible in the spectral images. The target is selected to have no other Gaia DR3 star within 53 arc-seconds, about 820 NIRISS pixels, and the nearest star is 8 magnitudes fainter than the target in the Gaia DR3 catalogue. Hence we expect to get a clean observation of the higher orders. There is another object on the DSS images about 34 arc-seconds away from the target but it is very faint.

The ETC calculation in workbook 133783 suggests S/N > 500 per pixel along the dispersion direction for the first order spectrum where this spectrum is not saturated. Examination of commissioning observations where a bright star was observed with the GR150 grisms suggests that orders -3, -2, -1, 2, 3 are fainter than the first order by factors of approximately 450, 200, 120, 130, and 1500 for the F150W filter which covers the blaze peak and hence has the largest supression of the higher orders. With S/N of 600 in first order any additional orders within a factor of 200 in brightness compared to the first order will be detected at S/N of about 3 or higher.

The program currently has also short observations using the calibration subarrays to allow the spectrum to be recorded without saturation. This will allow better relative calibration of the higher orders with respect to the first order spectrum, which is difficult in the full frame observation since the first order will be saturated there in most configurations.