---
id: 4479
proposal_type: "calibration"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: ""
program_title: "CAL-NIS-213  SOSS Background"
type: ""
---
# 4479 - CAL-NIS-213  SOSS Background
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4479
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
### 1. OBSERVATIONS Table: Labels, Observing Templates, and Science Targets

| Observation Folder | Label | Observing Template       | Science Target    |
| :----------------- | :---- | :----------------------- | :---------------- |
| 1                  |       | NIRISS External Calibration | (1) ECLIPTIC-RA00 |
| 2                  |       | NIRISS External Calibration | (1) ECLIPTIC-RA00 |
| 3                  |       | NIRISS External Calibration | (2) ECLIPTIC-RA20 |
| 4                  |       | NIRISS Imaging           | (2) ECLIPTIC-RA20 |
| 5                  |       | NIRISS External Calibration | (2) ECLIPTIC-RA20 |
| 6                  |       | NIRISS External Calibration | (4) ECLIPTIC-RA60 |
| 7                  |       | NIRISS External Calibration | (6) ECLIPTIC-RA100 |
| 8                  |       | NIRISS External Calibration | (7) ECLIPTIC-RA120 |

---

## ABSTRACT

Observations of the zodiacal light background are requested for 6 pointings, one of which is repeated to give some indication of whether there is a variability to the background from acquisition to acquisition depending on the grism position. Each field is fairly empty by the standards of the SOSS mode with no star bright enough to acquire. Observations are taken without an acquistion in full frame read-out with the GR700XD grism in the beam. No observations in the F277W filter are requested here. Analysis of these observations will allow some evaluation of how much the background may vary from pointing to pointing, and we expect to produce a number of zodiacal background template shapes from these data that can be used in the analysis of SOSS time series.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Observations in cycle 1 have shown that scaling the “template” NIRISS SOSS mode background image does not produce a good background subtraction in many cases. There are residuals at the few percent level which cause problems for the light-curve analysis. We request time to observe the SOSS background at six sky positions which are either near the ecliptic plane or near +/-30 degrees ecliptic latitude. These observations will provide more samples of the zodiacal light background shape in the GR700XD grism and thus give us a direct measurement of the level of variability in the background spectrum.

One sky position has 2 observations which are non-interruptable. This observtion is intended to see whether changes in the PWCPOS causes a change in the background spectrum, by having a second acqusition of the same pointing between the exposures, as was done in program 1512 in cycle 1.