---
id: 4480
proposal_type: "calibration"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: ""
program_title: "CAL-NIS-214  AMI Calibrator Requirements"
type: ""
---
# 4480 - CAL-NIS-214  AMI Calibrator Requirements
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4480
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template                   | Science Target       |
|-------|------------------------------------|----------------------|
|       | NIRISS Aperture Masking Interferometry | (1) HD-150668        |
|       | NIRISS Aperture Masking Interferometry | (2) HD-149201        |
|       | NIRISS Aperture Masking Interferometry | (3) HD-149446        |
|       | NIRISS Aperture Masking Interferometry | (4) IRAS-16516-1517  |

## ABSTRACT

Observations of four single stars as AMI mode calibration sources are requested. The first two have closely matched brightesses and the third star is of similar spectral type but is a factor of 1.5 fainter. The last star is the same brightness as the third star but of a somewhat different spectral type. Cross-calibrations of these stars with each other will give information to guide the requirements needed for selecting AMI phase calibration sources. This calibration program may change in response to system developments and the final Cycle 2 science program.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We request NIRISS AMI mode observations of several single stars to assess the sensitivity of the AMI phase calibration on the spectral type and brightness of the PSF reference star compared to the main target. The four stars selected are two pairs each closely matched in brightness. The brighter pair have very similar spectral types. The fainter pair have somewhat different spectral types and one of these two stars matches the spectral type of the brighter two stars fairly closely. The stars are also within a relatively small area of sky. We request observations of each of these stars in the NIRISS AMI mode to about the same total number of collected photons. Since the phase calibration is sensitive to the primary mirror wavefront error, the four observations are grouped as a non-interruptable sequence.
Once the data are obtained pairs of stars will be cross-calibrated to see how well or how badly the phase calibration can be doe with stars of different brightess or different spectral type. These results will be used to provide guidance to AMI mode users concerning how closely the properties of the phase calibration target need to match those of the science target for good results.
As the different stars are to be cross-calibrated all four observations need to be done together, so the observations are non-interruptable.