---
id: 4482
proposal_type: "calibration"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: ""
program_title: "CAL-MIRI-200  CCC-Closed Darks"
type: ""
---
# 4482 - CAL-MIRI-200  CCC-Closed Darks
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4482
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                  | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :--------------------- | :----------------- | :------------- |
| FASTR1 MRS             | MIRI Dark          | NONE           |
| FASTR1 MRS             | MIRI Dark          | NONE           |
| FASTR1 Imager          | MIRI Dark          | NONE           |
| FASTR1 Imager          | MIRI Dark          | NONE           |
| FASTR1 BRIGHTSKY       | MIRI Dark          | NONE           |
| FASTR1 SUB256          | MIRI Dark          | NONE           |
| FASTR1 SUB128          | MIRI Dark          | NONE           |
| FASTR1 SUB64           | MIRI Dark          | NONE           |
| FASTR1 SLITLESSPR ISM  | MIRI Dark          | NONE           |
| FASTR1 MASK1065        | MIRI Dark          | NONE           |
| FASTR1 MASK1140        | MIRI Dark          | NONE           |
| FASTR1 MASK1550        | MIRI Dark          | NONE           |
| FASTR1 MASKLYOT        | MIRI Dark          | NONE           |
| SLOWR1 All Detectors   | MIRI Dark          | NONE           |

## ABSTRACT

    This activity will obtain calibration data for all three MIRI detectors during Cycle 2 to address known issues in the calibration of the dark current. Cycle 1 revealed that the dark rate varied on inconsistent timescales and amplitudes. Our current understanding indicates that this is due to persistence from sky and telescope background when the instrument is left in a configuration with one of the longer wavelength filters in the pupil. These data will also serve to monitor any temporal changes in the dark current, and be used to flag new hot, dead, and high-noise pixels for the bad-pixel mask. The activity will produce a full suite of data including simultaneous data from the full imager detector and the two MRS detectors with the contamination control cover (CCC) closed.

    This APT file includes the CCC-closed Darks for Cycle 2. CAL-MIRI-201 contains the CCC-open darks.

    This calibration program may change in response to system developments and the final Cycle 2 science program.

    Edit 29-06-23: Updated program to remove the EXPOSE ONLY requirements due to an issue with OSS not giving the command to close the CCC. Also updated the SLITLESSPRISM observation to new parameters following analyses by Jeroen Bowman and Jane Morrison.

    Edit2 29-06-23: Updated Special Requirements to indicate Exclusive Use of Instrument, to allow the CCC to stay closed following the MRS exposures.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

    This version of CAL-MIRI-200 contains one set of observations (of a planned five). The data will be taken as prime, and this program is likely to be modified as a result of that first set of observations, most likely with additional observations.

    Observations are constrained to be executed in the first six weeks of Cycle 2.

    CCC must be CLOSED for these observations. Once they are scheduled, the CCC will need to be commanded closed before they start and open once they conclude.