---
id: 4484
proposal_type: "calibration"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: ""
program_title: "CAL-MIRI-202  Internal Flatfield Monitor"
type: ""
---
# 4484 - CAL-MIRI-202  Internal Flatfield Monitor
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4484
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label          | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :------------- | :----------------- | :------------- |
| Month 1 flats  | MIRI External Flat | (1) NAME-LMC   |
| Month 2 flats  | MIRI External Flat | (1) NAME-LMC   |
| Month 3 flats  | MIRI External Flat | (1) NAME-LMC   |
| Month 4 flats  | MIRI External Flat | (1) NAME-LMC   |
| Month 5 flats  | MIRI External Flat | (1) NAME-LMC   |
| Month 6 flats  | MIRI External Flat | (1) NAME-LMC   |
| Month 7 flats  | MIRI External Flat | (1) NAME-LMC   |
| Month 8 flats  | MIRI External Flat | (1) NAME-LMC   |
| Month 9 flats  | MIRI External Flat | (1) NAME-LMC   |
| Month 10 flats | MIRI External Flat | (1) NAME-LMC   |
| Month 11 flats | MIRI External Flat | (1) NAME-LMC   |
| Month 12 flats | MIRI External Flat | (1) NAME-LMC   |

---

## ABSTRACT

During the course of the JWST mission, small changes can be expected in the detector operating parameters (especially bias voltage and temperature). Additionally, space weathering from the cumulative impacts of cosmic rays will slowly degrade detector properties. As a result, the detector responsivities will change with time, making it imperative to monitor the MIRI detectors on a regular basis and have the data available to develop new flatfields when they are required. Periodic (monthly) measurements of the on-board calibration sources plus background sky will provide the following information: (1) tracking of trends and changes in the relative radiometric response of the imager and Medium Resolution Spectrometer (MRS) for the optical train between the calibration source and the detector, (2) when combined with measurements of photometric standard stars, the ability to derive the absolute radiometric response at all times and all points in the field of the imager and MRS, (3) the pixel flatfield (gain or responsivity matrix), (4) high signal-to-noise measurements of the MRS spectral fringes.
This calibration program may change in response to system developments and the final Cycle 2 science program.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Observations will be obtained once per month.
Each observation consists of a sequence with the calibration lamps off, then on, targeting a field in the LMC, observing with both the MRS and imager simultaneously. The imager will use the F1000W, F2100W, and F2550W filters as the MRS observes in all 3 grating settings, which will provide additional monitoring data at the same monthly cadence.
Observations are constrained to roughly the first 10 days of each month to ensure a close-to-monthly cadence through the 12 months of Cycle 2.