---
id: 4494
proposal_type: "calibration"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: ""
program_title: "CAL-FGS-201  Internal Flat Field"
type: ""
---
# 4494 - CAL-FGS-201  Internal Flat Field
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4494
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                  | Observing Template  | Science Target              |
| :--------------------- | :------------------ | :-------------------------- |
| G1 full frame only     | FGS Internal Flat   | (1) Northern-FGS-Lamp-field |
| G1 full frame only     | FGS Internal Flat   | (1) Northern-FGS-Lamp-field |
| G2 full frame only     | FGS Internal Flat   | (1) Northern-FGS-Lamp-field |
| G2 full frame only     | FGS Internal Flat   | (1) Northern-FGS-Lamp-field |
| G1 full frame only     | FGS Internal Flat   | (1) Northern-FGS-Lamp-field |
| G1 full frame only     | FGS Internal Flat   | (1) Northern-FGS-Lamp-field |
| G2 full frame only     | FGS Internal Flat   | (1) Northern-FGS-Lamp-field |
| G2 full frame only     | FGS Internal Flat   | (1) Northern-FGS-Lamp-field |

---

## ABSTRACT

This will monitor the flat field of the FGS channels. There is significant structure in the lamp flats, however, these lamp flat fields are good for monitoring trends in the response of the detector over time. The internal calibration lamp shall be used, so Fine Guiding will not be possible, hence ACS will be under coarse control. Exposures will use full frame images. Each exposure is repeated five times for cosmic ray rejection. After the full frame data are obtained, a 1 arcminute telescope offset is to be executed and the imaging sequence is to be repeated to allow for sky-source removal

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This will monitor the state of the flat field of the FGS channels, but will not be used to actually calibrate the flat field since the lamp images contain significant structure. Exposures will use full frame images (no sub-arrays). Each exposure is repeated five times for cosmic ray rejection. Due to a bug in OSS script that executes the LAMP exposures (lamps are turned off prior to a dither, but are not re-activated), we have modifed the exposures so that each Guider has two Observations without dithers, but on targetst separated by (x,y) = (30"30"). This results in the FGS FOV being placed at a different patch of sky to facilitate star rremoval, but causes two independent execution of the Lamp script without a dither, bypassing the OSS bug and resulting in two exposures/FGS with LAMP=ON in both. This offset will allow for sky-source removal (the FGS has no shutter or opaque element).

Since the FGS lacks a shutter, the images will be of lamp plus sky. Therefore it is important that the sky contribution can be removed so that the lamp data can be used to monitor FGS response over time. For this reason it is necessary and important to choose a "target" field that is sparsely populated with "external" source. An additional constraint is to satisfy the MAZ requirement. The "target" (or more appropriately, the "pointing direction") selected here ("Northern-FGS_Lamp-Field") at ecliptic coordinates = (80.196, +57.42) is a sparse field that apparently satisifies the MAZ constraints for the selected ranges of dates specified for the execution of the exposures.

Note: Here are the nominal dates for executing the observations.

**TIMING CONSTRAINTS**
Observations 1, 2, 3, 4 should be done within Oct-Dec 2023.
Observations (1&2) and ((3&4) are non-interruptible.
Observations 5,6,7, 8 should be done within Mar-Apr 2024.
Observations (5&6) and (7&8) are non-interruptible.