---
id: 4515
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 3
program_title: "Galactic Center Astrometry"
type: ""
---
# 4515 - Galactic Center Astrometry
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4515
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label        | Observing Template | Science Target        |
| :----------- | :----------------- | :-------------------- |
| Third visit  | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) NAME-GAL-CENTER |
| Third visit  | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) NAME-GAL-CENTER |
| Fourth visit | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) NAME-GAL-CENTER |

---

## ABSTRACT

We will observe the Galactic Center with NIRCam to study the orbits of stars around the supermassive black hole and the structure of the nuclear star cluster. We will focus on the fainter stars, which are harder to measure from the ground. We will observe mainly through medium-band filters in order to go deep without saturating the bright stars too much. This set of observations will constitute the final third and fourth epochs. Combined with two epochs already taken in Cycles 1 and 2, we will measure proper motions; four epochs are necessary to account for curvature in the orbits so close to the Galactic Center.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will observe the Galactic center mainly through medium-band filters, which will provide a nice compromise between not missing too many of the bright stars and going deep enough to provide a good complement to ground-based observations. We were able to fit in 5-7 secondary dithers per epoch. This choice should allow an exquisite reconstruction of the JWST PSF, which is of course critical to high-accuracy astrometry. NIRISS will be observed in parallel so that we can get some additional information for a nearby field.

In Cycle 1, observations were executed at the beginning of August 2022. In Cycle 2, observations are planned for August/September 2023.

This APT file is used for Cycle 3 observations. The changes with respect to Cycle 1 (GTO 1306 program) strategy are the following:
- Two epochs instead of one (one at the beginning of Cycle 3 and one at the end);
- 5 subpixel dither positions for epoch 3 and 7 for epoch 4;
- Different NIRCam LW filter for epoch 4 (F405N+F444W LW filter to decrese the number of pixel with hard saturation --no slope-- in the LW data);
- Different NIRISS filter for epoch 3 (F140M filter to make a CMD with NIRISS data only).

We ask for the following special requirements:
- V3 PA of 87.032906090762 deg. This is needed to perfectly overlap the Cycle 3 observations with those of Cycles 1 and 2 both for NIRCam and NIRISS detectors;
- "Before date 10/31/2024" for epoch 3 and "Between dates 10/31/2024 and 10/31/2025" for epoch 4. We need observations taken nearly a year apart;
- Offset (X,Y)=(52,34.5) arcsec. This puts the Galactic Center at the center of NIRCam's SW SCA B3.

We will re-evaluate the filter choices after we received the Cycle 2 data, so that we can better assess how the PSF and saturation levels vary as a function of wavelength.