---
id: 4527
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 6
program_title: "CANUCS: The CAnadian NIRISS Unbiased Cluster Survey"
type: ""
---
# 4527 - CANUCS: The CAnadian NIRISS Unbiased Cluster Survey
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4527
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                      | Observing Template             | Science Target                        |
| :------------------------- | :----------------------------- | :------------------------------------ |
| config 1, config 2, config 3 | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (1) macs1149_ncf_nirspec_targets_v1 |

## ABSTRACT

This program targets an overdensity of z>8 galaxies discovered in the MACS1149 NIRCam flanking field to investigate the early evolution of galaxies in overdense environments. With NIRSpec MOS medium resolution band 3 spectroscopy we will measure the galaxies' star formation rates and metallicities from Balmer, [OIII] 5007, 4363, [NeIII] 3869 and [OII] 3727 lines. With medium resolution band 1 spectroscopy we will measure Lyman alpha escape fraction and velocity offsets and UV metal emission lines.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

NIRSpec MOS with two MSA configurations. Observations with two medium resolution gratings: G140M/F100LP and G395M/F290LP. Since we are only interested in emission lines and not continuum we allow overlapping spectra with a separation of at least 200 shutters to increase the multiplex.

The targets are drawn from a single deep NIRCam pointing. We request an orientation constraint of 253<APA<257 in order to maximize the number of high priority targets that fall within active regions of the MSA. This orientation range is within the meteoroid safe zone and provides 24 days of visibility.

The MSA configurations will be updated nearer the date of observation when the exact orientation angle and MSA operability maps are known.