---
id: 4528
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 70
program_title: "Galaxy Assembly with NIRSpec Integral Spectoscopy: Complementary Cycle 3 Observations"
type: ""
---
# 4528 - Galaxy Assembly with NIRSpec Integral Spectoscopy: Complementary Cycle 3 Observations
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4528
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                  | Observing Template       | Science Target               |
| :--------------------- | :----------------------- | :--------------------------- |
| GN-z11                 | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) GN-z11                   |
| LAP1                   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (2) LAP1                     |
| QSOJ0224               | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (3) J0224-4711               |
| HSC J0859+0022         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (4) J0859+0022               |
| LAE2_GS10578           | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (5) LAE2_GS10578             |
| MACS0647-JD1           | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (6) MACS0647-JD1             |
| DLA0817g               | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (7) DLA0817g                 |
| LBQS0109               | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (8) LBQS0109                 |
| HB8903                 | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (9) HB8903                   |
| GN-108036              | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (10) GN-108036               |
| CGG-z5                 | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (11) CGG-z5                  |
| JADES-GS-53.087-27.86  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (12) JADES-GS-53.087-27.86   |
| Z-001                  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (13) Z-001                   |
| Repeat of Obs-2 LAP1   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (2) LAP1                     |

## ABSTRACT

These Cycle 3 observations are part of the Galaxy Assembly NIRSpec IFS survey (GA_NIFS), a program aimed at characterizing the internal structure of distant galaxies and, therefore, investigate the primary physical processes driving galaxy evolution. The main specific objectives are: to trace the distribution of star formation and map the resolved properties of the stellar populations, to trace the gas kinematics (i.e. velocity fields, velocity dispersion) and, hence, determine dynamical masses and also identify non-virial motions (outflow and inflows), and to map metallicity and dust extinction. These quantities will be mapped for some of the brightest and most extended star forming galaxies and AGN/QSO hosts up to z ~7, and beyond. Here we present the observations of 13 additional targets to the ~45 already included in Cycle 1.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This proposal includes the observations with the IFU of NIRSpec of 13 targets with redshifts between ~ 2.5 and 11. PA constraints have been defined individually for each target to avoid contamination of spectra due to nearby sources leaking through the MSA, where necessary. Issues related to MSA leakage are also minimized through our dither strategy: we use a medium cycling pattern for most targets, which is a good compromise between an amplitude large enough to jump failed open microshutters while keeping a large effective FoV with complete exposure time. This dither pattern also provides a good sub-pixel sampling. Therefore we do not require leakcal exposures for the majority of our targets. No TA is included since all galaxies are located in well-studied fields containing stars with good astrometry. Small inaccuracies in acquisition are unproblematic because of the 3x3 arcsec FoV. No background exposures are required since each obseravtions contains a large number of spaxels free of emission from the main target or neighbours. We will use those spaxels within the FoV to perform a background subtraction.

In the following, we provide a short description of our observations and scientific goals.

i) GN-z11 is a famous luminous galaxy at z=10.6. Using G395H/F290LP, we plan to constrain possible rotation, spectrally decompose the narrow and broad emission in the hydrogen lines, constrain the ISM conditions, search for outflow signatures, and to further investigate the putative PopIII detection in its halo.

ii) LAP1 is a highly lensed star cluster at z=6.639, with a lensing-corrected M* 1e4 Msol, absolute luminosity MUV > 11.2 (mUV > 35.6), with a strong evidence for popIII stars or a direct collapse black hole. We target this unique object with G395H/F290LP disperser/filter combination to spectrally and spatially resolve this object. With this new observation we will be able to confirm the low-metallicity nature of this object, measure the line width, hence constraining the mass of this object and potentially identify presence of outflows.

iii) J0224-4711 at z~6.5. We aim at characterizing the powerful AGN-driven outflow of this high-luminosity quasar. This target has been recently observed with JWST/NIRCam WFSS; its spectrum shows an extremely broad [OIII]5007 line, with a FWHM ~4000 km/s and a wing extending out to ~-7000 km/s.

iv) HSC J0859+0022. This is a narrow-line Seyfert 1 at the epoch of reionization (z~6.4). NIRSpec IFS will allow us to infer Hb- and Ha-based Mbh, and map all main optical lines (e.g. Hb, [OIII], Ha). We will characterize the ISM properties in this low-luminosity QSO hosted in a normal, main sequence galaxy, and accreting at Eddington rate. We will also study the environment of this system, and provide new insight on the growth of the less massive SMBHs in the early Universe.

v) LAE2_GS-105872. We propose to study a newly discovered kpc-scale triple AGN at z~3, identified with MUSE rest-frame UV and NIRSpec rest-frame optical spectroscopic data (as part of the GA-NIFS GTO program). The proposed NIRSpec cycle3 observations will cover two Ly-alpha emitters just outside the field-of-view of cycle1 data, allowing us to map rest-frame optical emission lines and hence study the impact of a triple AGN on their hosts: will will probe the quasar fueling mechanisms, host galaxy merger signatures, and merger induced star formation.

vi) We propose to obtain medium-resolution IFS observations of MACS0647-JD1 (i.e. lensed image 1, with lensing magnification factor of ~8) to characterise the interstellar medium of this unique galaxy merger - at 460 million years after the Big Bang is the most distant merging system known (Hsiao et al. 2022, 2023). We will be able to probe, through various emission-line ratios, spatially resolved measurements of the ionisation state (via [NeIII]/[OII]), dust content (through the Balmer decrement), and metallicity (potentially with [OIII] 4364 Å or indirectly with [NeIII]/[OII]) of this unique system.

vii) We will observe the z=4.2603 main sequence galaxy J0817, which is the best case of a rotating galaxy in the first 1.5Gyr of the Universe, based on ALMA [CII] observations. The high spatial resolution of JWST will shine light on the kinematics of this source, while also enabling us to i) Compare Ha and [CII] as SFR and kinematics tracers at high redshift; ii) Determine the metallicity of this source by detecting [NII] and [SII], resulting in a refined molecular gas mass and metallicity gradients; iii) Search for dim satellite galaxies in the field of this early starburst.

viii) and ix) LBQS0109 (z=2.35) and HB8903 (z=2.44), are two high-luminosity (Lbol>1047 erg/s) unobscured quasars, hosting extended ionised outflows as traced by [OIII] line emission in SINFONI observations (Carniani et al. 2015). After removing dominant AGN components (broad and narrow line regions, and outflows), Carniani et al. (2016) identified a faint narrow (FWHM < 500 km s1), and spatially extended H component due to SF in the host galaxy. The SF-H emission is spatially anti-correlated with the location of the outflow thus supporting the efficiency of such ionized winds in suppressing SF along their flow. The NIRSpec-IFU observations will be performed at R2700 in the spectral configuration G235H/F170LP. The specific band for the high-resolution observations is aimed at including the most important emission lines (from ~ Hb to [SII]) to map the ISM and trace the star-formation in the host galaxy, confirming or confuting negative feedback scenario.

x) GN-108036, a star-forming galaxy (SFR~30-100 Msun/yr) at z~7.213, exhibits the largest velocity offset to date between Lya and a non-resonant line (specifically [CII]) at z>6, by ~1000 km/s, ascribable to the presence of fast outflows (Ono et al. 2012, Baier-Soto et al. 2022). The NIRSpec-IFU observations will be performed at R1000 in the spectral configuration G395M/F290LP. The specific band for the medium-resolution observations is aimed at including the most important emission lines (from ~ [OII] to [OIII]) to map the warm ionised outflows and study the impact on the host galaxy.

xi) CGG-z5 is a compact group of at least six galaxies at z~5.2 identified in CEERS data by Jin et al., A&A 670, L11 (2023). Stellar masses range from 108.5 to 109.8 Msun and SFRs from 2 to 52 Msun yr-1. NIRSpec IFS observations in R100 and R2700 (from HeII4686+Hbeta to [SII]+Hel) will allow to: (1) study the star formation histories of the central and satellite galaxies (evaluate burstiness, enhancement/decline of star formation); (2) the kinematics of the system (relative velocities and possible evolution of the system, dynamical status, feedback mechanisms); (3) properties of the inter-stellar medium (regulation of metals, excitation mechanisms).

xii) JADES-GS-53.087-27.86 is an extended z~8 galaxy discovered in the JADES survey, published by Hainline+2023. Through G395H/F290LP observations with NIRSpec-IFS we want to investigate, via kinematics analysis, whether this is one extended rotating system, or is a massive galaxy assembly at z~8 in form of a merger. In addition, we want to constrain the ISM conditions, such as metallicity, electron density, and ionisation parameter.

xiii) Z-001 is the brightest z=7 LBG known to-date (Muv ~ -23) which has a unique combination of spatially resolved multi-tracer detections from previous HST + ALMA programs. The science goals are to spatially resolve the metallicity, dust and stellar mass and to detect outflows, determine kinematics and search for the signatures of hidden AGN.