---
id: 4534
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Coronagraphy"
pi_and_co_pis: "Charles Beichman"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 7
program_title: "Exoplanet search around Altair"
type: ""
---
# 4534 - Exoplanet search around Altair
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4534
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                    | Observing Template           | Science Target   |
| :----------------------- | :--------------------------- | :--------------- |
| Altair - Roll 1          | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (1) ALTAIR       |
| Altair - Roll 2          | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (1) ALTAIR       |
| Vega - Altair Reference star | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (2) VEGA         |

---

## ABSTRACT

Coronagraphic imaging of Altair to directly image orbiting planets.
The proximity of Altair (just 5 pc away) enables detection of planets at just a few AU orbital separation, while its young age (100 Myr) results in relatively low-mass detection limits for cooling self-luminous exoplanets.
NIRCam coronagraphic observations will be sensitive to Jupiter-mass planets at 5 AU and Saturn-mass planets outside of 10 AU - two of the Solar System's planets would be detectable if they were around Altair!

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Coronagraphic imaging of Altair to discover orbiting planets.
Altair is observed with 2 roll angles separated by 5-10 degrees.
Vega is observed as a reference star, with 5 dithers to provide PSF diversity.
Target acquisition on these bright stars requires RADID integrations, even after dimming the stars with the neutral density filter.
The shortest integration provides SNR > 300.
All science observations are with the F430R NIRCam coronagraphic mask, with F200W / F444W filters.
For these bright stars, readout is RAPID.
Up to 10 groups of observations are possible before saturation.
The total exposure time for the reference star is the same as for each roll of the primary target, once the 5 dithers are added together.