---
id: 4537
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "Klaus Hodapp"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 5
program_title: "B335 with NIRSpec IFU"
type: ""
---
# 4537 - B335 with NIRSpec IFU
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4537
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :---- | :----------------- | :------------- |
| B335  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) B335-protostar |

## ABSTRACT

We propose to follow up on the discovery of very young, highly excited shock fronts very close to the central protostellar object in B335. These shock fronts were found in the slitless spectroscopy and imaging obtained as part of the extinction mapping program 1187. We propose to follow-up this discovery with mapping of the inner few arcsec of this protostellar outflow with the NIRSpec IFU to study the CO bandhead emission from the densest shock fronts in detail, and to study the spectrum of the embedded protostar in the scattered continuum observed in the reflection nebula. We expect that the emission lines in the scattered light, originating from the disk around the protostar will have very different kinematics from the emission in the shock fronts. The proposed observations will have significant legacy value, since the string of shock fronts in B335 indicates repeated ejection events on timescales of a few decades and both morphological and spectral changes in the outflow launch region are to be expected on this time scale.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose a set of 5 IFU pointings covering east and west of the ALMA position of the central protostar. A position angle of PA-V3 = 100 deg. is dictated by the available visibility, the desire to avoid the micrometeroid risk zone, and the need to avoid diffraction spikes from a nearby very bright star, that affected part of Figure 1. The resulting mosaic pattern (Figure 7) has the outflow axis roughly diagonal through the IFU, which is cosmetically not ideal, but feasible. The mosaic will include the central region and the two youngest show fronts on either side of the central protostar.
We will use one NIRSpec setting with the F290LP filter and the G395H high- resolution grating with a spectral resolution of 2700. Shorter wavelengths are so much more obscured by extinction that getting a good spectrum becomes pro- hibitively difficult.
Since the B335 region has a rich background star field (the very reasons why it was chosen for 1187) with bright extended emission, we want to use a full set of MSA leak calibration exposures, even though these are expensive in observing time.