---
id: 4538
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging  NIRCam/Coronagraphy"
pi_and_co_pis: "Schuyler Wolff"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 13.3
program_title: "Exo-Asteroid Belts with JWST: Pinpointing the Warm Dust Emission"
type: ""
---
# 4538 - Exo-Asteroid Belts with JWST: Pinpointing the Warm Dust Emission
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4538
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label             | Observing Template               | Science Target           |
| :---------------- | :------------------------------- | :----------------------- |
| MIRI Background   | MIRI Imaging                     | (3) Background-Beta-Leo  |
| MIRI              | MIRI Imaging                     | (1) -bet-Leo             |
| NRC-Rot1 BetaLeo  | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging     | (1) -bet-Leo             |
| NRC-Rot2 BetaLeo  | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging     | (1) -bet-Leo             |
| MIRI PSF          | MIRI Imaging                     | (8) -del-Leo             |
| NRC PSF           | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging     | (8) -del-Leo             |
| Background        | MIRI Imaging                     | (6) Background-Eta-Crv   |
| Science           | MIRI Imaging                     | (4) -eta-Crv             |
| PSF               | MIRI Imaging                     | (7) -alf-Crv             |

## ABSTRACT

Resolved images of debris disks from optical to millimeter wavelengths have advanced the understanding of star and planet formation in recent decades, but have thus far been limited to the cold, outer, Kuiper belt analogues. For the first time, the warm, inner, asteroid belt analogues are accessible for a handful of targets with JWST, probing signatures of planet formation histories inside of the ice line. We aim to triple the sample of nearby debris disks with exo-asteroid belt components detectable with JWST using the MIRI imager. We have identified the two sources with the highest probability of hosting a resolvable warm debris disk via modelling of spectral energy distributions and marginally resolved IR imaging from the literature. These warm disks, like our own asteroid belt, are composed of rocky bodies and are likely shepherded by planets. Only JWST is able to observe this phenomenon with a spatial resolution never before achieved in the Mid-IR and at the peak in thermal emission from dust a few tens of microns in size where the star/disk contrast is more favorable. The warm dust disk morpholgies will be linked to shepherding planets and the radial distribution of dust, when combined with multiwavelength photometry, will probe the dust size distributions and test the collisional histories and radial transport mechanisms in the intermediate disk (i.e. between the Kuiper Belt and zodiacal dust analogues). With this legacy dataset, JWST will do for asteroid belt analogues what ALMA and HST have achieved for Kuiper belt analogs; revolutionizing the field of circumstellar astrophysics.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will image the exo-asteroid belts of five nearby debris disk systems with MIRI. Building up the experiences of the JWST GTO 1193 team (private communication) we forgo use of the MIRI coronagraphs and instead use the imager for a smaller inner working angle at longer wavelengths. We combine observations of the science targets with contemporaneous PSF reference star observations and will perform classical PSF subtraction to retrieve the disk signal in the inner regions of these disks. Observations for all targets will use the filter/subarray combination F2100W/SUB128. This wavelength is near the peak of the disk emission in IR photometry and the smaller subarray provides a snapshot of the inner disk while limiting saturation of the PSF core for these bright, nearby sources. For one source, Zeta Lep, with an unusually large warm dust population (inferred from IR excess) we also obtain images using the F1130W/SUB64 combination for an even smaller inner working angle to probe inside of the exo-asteroid belt to the rocky planet zone. For all sources and observing modes we opt for the minimum 5 groups per integration, a total integration time of roughly 900 seconds per exposure, and use a 4 point dither pattern with the extended pattern where available. Lastly, a set of background observations with the same exposure properties will be performed at both filter/subarray combinations to aid in the high fideltiy residual stellar PSF subtraction for all science targets.