---
id: 4539
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: "MIRI/LRS  NIRSpec/FS"
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 2.5
program_title: "Spectroscopy of T8 WISE 2255-3118"
type: ""
---
# 4539 - Spectroscopy of T8 WISE 2255-3118
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4539
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label              | Observing Template            | Science Target                      |
| :----------------- | :---------------------------- | :---------------------------------- |
| G395H and Prism    | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (1) WISE-J225540.75-311842.0        |
| MIRI LRS           | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) WISE-J225540.75-311842.0        |

---

## ABSTRACT

Young T dwarfs are excellent giant exoplanet analogs for studying the atmospheric properties of planetary-mass objects. We propose to observe T-dwarf WISE 2255-3118, which is likely a beta Pictoris moving group member with a very young age (~10MYr). By utilizing NIRSpec Prism and MIRI LRS spectroscopy, we will characterize the bolometric luminosity and constrain the atmospheric composition. The high-resolution G395H spectrum will provide a precise determination of the atmospheric abundances of CO,CH4, CO2 and H2O and hence the C/O ratio of the young T-dwarf atmosphere.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Based on public HST image at epoch 2012, there is a background galaxy that is close to the target. The position angle is restricted to avoid the slit getting too close to the galaxy while doing 3-point-nod dithering along the NIRSpec slit.
SNR: Within the overall allocated time limit the NIRSpec Prism spectrum integration time was chosen to have at least SNR>5 at the deepest methane absorption at 3.4µm; the 395H spectrum to have SNR>100 at the 4-5µm for an isotopologue study of 13CO; and the MIRI LRS spectrum to have SNR>5 at around 12µm for bolometric luminosity measurement and constrain ammonia abundance from 10-12µm. The SNR for target acquisition is above 50 for both NIRSpec and MIRI.
6/25/24 revisions: As suggested by the STScI MIRI instrument reviewer we have added a TA verification image after the MIRI LRS observations. Apparently this will be used to get a better estimate of the slit loss corrections in later versions of the STScI MIRI LRS pipeline. We also slightly increased the number of groups per integration in the TA images. We are still within our 2.5 hour allocation time limit.
7/2/24. Slightly tweaked the RA proper motion of this fat-moving object based on recent astrometric measurments.