---
id: 4540
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/WFSS"
pi_and_co_pis: "Daniel Eisenstein"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 29.4
program_title: "Deep NIRCam grism observations in the 1210 parallel field"
type: ""
---
# 4540 - Deep NIRCam grism observations in the 1210 parallel field
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4540
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                  | Observing Template                       | Science Target       |
| :--------------------- | :--------------------------------------- | :------------------- |
| LW C Grism             | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy  | (1) JADES-Deep-Field |
| F356W C Grism -SE      | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy  | (1) JADES-Deep-Field |
| F444W C Grism -NW      | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy  | (1) JADES-Deep-Field |

## ABSTRACT

We will conduct deep NIRCam grism spectroscopy in F322W2, F356W and F444W, yielding coverage of the full 3-5 micron spectra of the full footprint of the very deep 14-band NIRCam imaging field from programs 1210 and 3215 in GOODS-S These grism data will provide hundreds of 3.5<z<9 spectroscopic redshifts and identify large-scale structures in this legacy field. We will study the velocity fields of the resolved galaxies and the velocity dispersions of the compact galaxies, using the deep imaging to define the undispersed images in the emission lines and break the velocity-morphology degeneracy. We will measure the line fluxes without slit losses and use the ratios of H$\alpha$, H$\beta$, and [OIII] 5007 to measure ISM conditions and dust extinction in these galaxies. Pairing the spectroscopic redshifts and emission line fluxes with the many-band imaging will allow detailed modeling of the spectral energy distributions of the galaxies, with implications for stellar masses and star formation histories. Observations in the SW arm will add F070W imaging to this field, better isolating z=5-6 dropout galaxies whose rest-UV selection can be compared to the rest-optical emission line selection. Coordinated parallels of five-band imaging with MIRI will open a new deep region for the study of galaxy masses and AGN at z>4.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

## v3 - Modified on June 27, 2024 (DJE & FS on behalf of the project team)
We have revised the APT based on the recommendation of our program coordinator and reviewers. The changes include:
1. We revise the order of MIRI parallel imaging observation such that shorter-wavelength imaging observations are taken before longer-wavelength observations in the same visit (F1500W before F2100W, and F770W before F1000W). This is to avoid the persistence of saturated sources and background in longer wavelength.
2. We change all MIRI paralell observations in visit 1:1 and 1:4 (i.e., associated with NIRCam grism exposures) to FASTR1 readout, because it is not advised to use both FASTR1 and SLOWR1 readout in the same telescope visit. We change F1500W observations to 71-group x 3-integration, and F2100W observations to 31-group x 14-integration. We have checked the online ETC that these observations do not exceed background saturation limit. The ETC also suggests that the expected SNR of a 22-AB-mag source increases after this change because of faster readout and avoidance of saturation. The MIRI observations are also signifcantly shorter than NIRCam WFSS observations (F1500W: 3.6ks < 5.7ks in NIRCam; F2100W: 7.4ks < 9.5ks in NIRCam) to avoid data rate limit.
3. We change the groups of MIRI SLOWR1 observations (F560W, F770W, F1000W) to 11-13 groups, such that the integration time is limited to 270-310s to mitigate the cosmic ray issue (according to JDox).
4. NIRCam direct observations are changed to 6-group SHALLOW4 readout. This is to increase the depth of MIRI F560W imaging observations.

All observations are schedulable in Oct 14-26, 2024. The total charge time is 36.8 hours, small than the latest 37.2-hr cap.
## v2 - Modified on June 3 2024 (DJE & FS on behalf of the project team)
We have revised the APT to optimize the survey strategy. The target field and major science goals remain the same. The following revisions have been committed:
- NIRCam WFSS primary observations are grouped into three observations (eight in previous v1 APT). Each of the observations will obtain two columns x 1 row of mosaics with NIRCam Grism-C WFSS as primary and MIRI imaging as coordinated parallel. This change will save the slew and guide star overhead. Pointings and offsets have been carefully tweaked to optimize the spectral coverage of JADES Origins Field.
Note that we will keep using Grism C only (without Grism R). This is because the field is rich of deep medium-band data from multiple programs, and therefore the emission-line contaminants can be identified from existing / scheduled observations. The main scientific objectives will also be achieved through emission lines, not continuum.
We split NIRCam F356W WFSS observations into F322W2 + F356W. By adding F322W2 observations to the same F356W pointing, we will gain spectra of sources at 2.5-3.1 um to characterize a galaxy overdensity at z~3.5, for which the Halpha line will be around 2.9-3.0 um. Note that we opt not to fully convert to F322W2 because the second-order spectra and impact from coronograph are still not well calibrated with F322W2 Grism C. By comparing F356W and F322W2 spectra obtained at the same pointing, we will characterize the contaminants introduced by new 2.5-3.1-um coverage without much degradation of sensitivity at 3.1-4.0 um.
- F322W2+F356W components will be observed through obsnum 1 and 2 (2 rows x 2 columns in total). F444W component will be observed through obsnum 1 and 12 (also 2 rows x 2 columns). All the three LW filters will be used in obsnum 1 with the same pointing and dithering patterns. We have carefully checked the spectral coverage with all filter and pointings. With the designed setup, we will obtain complete 3-5um spectral coverage for the 9-arcmin^2 JADES Origins Field, additionally with useful coverage at 2.5-3.0 um for part of the field.
- We change the coordinated MIRI parallel filters to F560W, F770W, F1000W, F1500W, F2100W (only with F770W and F1500W in previous v1 APT). F560W, F770W, F1000W observations are attached to obsnum 2 and 12 with ~4x2 arcmin^2 coverage. F1500W and F2100W observations are attached to obsnum 1 with the central ~2x2 arcmin^2 coverage. Because the MIRI parallel field will only fall in previous HST coverage, not JWST/NIRCam or NIRISS, we believe that using more filters with slightly reduced depth will optimize the MIRI scientific opportunities.

All observations are schedulable in Oct 14-26, 2024. The total charge time is 32.31 hours, small than the 32.4-hr cap.
## v1 - Original from initial submissions:
We will observe with NIRCam slitless spectroscopy in the GRISMC setting in two different filters, F356W and F444W. We are seeking to cover a previous NIRCam deep field in GOODS-S (from program 1210), while filling in the inter-module gap to give continuous sampling of the large-scale structure. Therefore, we have laid out 4 pointings in each filter, because one needs two "rows" to get nearly-full wavelength coverage across the span of the previous field.
The existence of the previous field gives very strong preference to V3 PA around 321 degrees. That said, we found that the low-density of guide stars in GOODS-S required that we tailor the exact position of the pointings to get legal settings in this region. We have searched around to open up a 11-12 day window.
Exposures are constructed to provide 6 to 8-fold pixel redundancy in each pointing, while using long exposures to limit overheads and detector noise. We are using 6-7 groups of DEEP8, chosen to minimize data volume.
The SW modules will simultaneously observe F070W novel to this deep field.
We will observe a coordinated parallel with MIRI in the F770W and F1500W filters. We have used the SLOWR1 readout mode before, and will do so again to reduce data volume, with multiple integrations per NIRCam exposure to avoid saturation.