---
id: 4541
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "John Stansberry"
prime_parallel_time_hours: 3.2
program_title: "Search for Varuna's Satellite"
type: ""
---
# 4541 - Search for Varuna's Satellite
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4541
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                  | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :--------------------- | :----------------- | :------------- |
| Varuna Imaging #1      | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) VARUNA     |
| Varuna Imaging #2      | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) VARUNA     |
| Varuna Imaging #3      | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) VARUNA     |
| Varuna Imaging #4 W OPR | NIRCam Imaging     | (2) Varuna-2   |
| Varuna Imaging #5 W OPR | NIRCam Imaging     | (2) Varuna-2   |

---

## ABSTRACT

This is a proposal to confirm the existence of the candidate satellite of Varuna. Varuna is a trans-Neptunian object which may have a close-in companion (angular separationodd 0.04"), as suggested by a double periodicity in the lightcurve of Varuna. Imaging of Varuna taken with the HST High Resolution Camera (no longer available) indicated a possible companion, but there was only a single epoch, making it impossible to confirm that the companion source was orbiting Varuna. NIRCam has resolution better than the HRC in the F070W filter. We propose a series of 3 observations of Varuna to reliably confirm this putative satellite and place initial constraints on its orbital period, enabling follow-up astrometry to determine the orbit. We will also take images at F090W in order to measure the spectral slope, for comparison with the known spectrum of Varuna itself, thus providing a test of the compositional relationship between the primary and satellite.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will observe Varuna at 3 closely-spaced epochs in order to unambiguosly determine whether it has a moon. The observations use NIRCam and the F070W filter to provide the highest possible spatial resolution - the satellite is expected to be within about 40 mas of Varuna, too close to be resoved using HST. If a satellite is detected, these observations will provide initial constraints on the orbit size/separation, and on the period, thus enabling follow-up observations. Such follow-up observations would allow Varuna's density to be determined; the presence of satellites is also an important factor for accurately determining the albedo and diamater, and so could result in a significant revision to those parameters for Varuna itself. Constraints guarantee overlap of the FOVs between the 3 epochs of observation, allowing us to subtract away background objects, while providing enough elapsed time such that Varuna's putative satellite should be well separated from Varuna in at least 2 of the 3 epochs.