---
id: 4548
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 8
program_title: "The intermediate-mass protostellar outflow, HH288"
type: ""
---
# 4548 - The intermediate-mass protostellar outflow, HH288
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4548
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :---- | :----------------- | :------------- |
| 1     | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) HH288_offset |

---

## ABSTRACT

We will obtain NIRCam images of the intermediate-mass protostellar outflow HH288 in lines of shocked molecular hydrogen and carbon monoxide to delineate the jet and its interaction with the surrounding star-forming core. We will also image the region in four wide continuum filters to map out faint surface brightness nebulosity around the outflow and protostar, and to assess the stellar content of the region, including nearby embedded objects.

HH288 is associated with the deeply embedded protostar IRAS 00342+6347 in Cassiopeia, at a distance of roughly 2kpc. Its characteristics suggest that is an intermediate-mass counterpart to the classical Class 0 protostellar stage defined for low-mass stars. It has bright molecular emission along a jet / outflow spanning at least 4.5 arcminutes, i.e. ~2.6 parsecs, with some fainter orthogonal H2 emission, consistent with millimetre interferometry showing a quadrupolar CO outflow. The two flows may be driven by a binary system, with two components seen in the radio separated by ~4 arcsec or 8000AU. The aim of this study is to provide better qualitative and quantitative information on the "intermediate-mass Class 0" hypothesis, much rarer objects than low-mass Class 0 protostars.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will obtain NIRCam images of the intermediate-mass protostellar outflow HH288 in lines of shocked molecular hydrogen and carbon monoxide to delineate the jet and its interaction with the surrounding star-forming core. We will also image the region in four wide continuum filters to map out faint surface brightness nebulosity around the outflow and protostar, and to assess the stellar content of the region, including nearby embedded objects.

HH288 is associated with the deeply embedded protostar IRAS 00342+6347 in Cassiopeia, at a distance of roughly 2kpc. Its characteristics suggest that is an intermediate-mass counterpart to the classical Class 0 protostellar stage defined for low-mass stars. It has bright molecular emission along a jet / outflow spanning at least 4.5 arcminutes, i.e. ~2.6 parsecs, with some fainter orthogonal H2 emission, consistent with millimetre interferometry showing a quadrupolar CO outflow. The two flows may be driven by a binary system, with two components seen in the radio separated by ~4 arcsec or 8000AU. The aim of this study is to provide better qualitative and quantitative information on the "intermediate-mass Class 0" hypothesis, much rarer objects than low-mass Class 0 protostars.

High-resolution, high-sensitivity JWST imaging will enable us to trace the outflows in much more detail and to much lower surface brightness, so disentangle the two flows and other small-scale nebulosity in the region. The long wavelength baseline will help us better identify the positions and immediate environs of the possible driving sources and other embedded stars. Possible future NIRCam imaging could help determine the proper motions and thus velocity in the jet and outflow, while MIRI imaging may better characterise the embedded sources.

A 2x2 NIRCam mosaic is made to cover the desired region with offsets and dithers to fill the inter-SCA and inter-module gaps: the total region covered is ~7.5x4.5 arcminutes.