---
id: 4549
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/WFSS"
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 19.6
program_title: "JWST/NIRCam Slitless Spectroscopy in the JWST/MIRI HUDF Region"
type: ""
---
# 4549 - JWST/NIRCam Slitless Spectroscopy in the JWST/MIRI HUDF Region
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4549
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                      | Observing Template                     | Science Target                   |
| :------------------------- | :------------------------------------- | :------------------------------- |
| POINTING-1_HUDF_GOODS-S | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (1) POINTING-1_HUDF_GOODS-S |
| POINTING-2_HUDF_GOODS-S | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (2) POINTING-2_HUDF_GOODS-S |
| POINTING-3_HUDF_GOODS-S | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (3) POINTING-3_HUDF_GOODS-S |
| POINTING-4_HUDF_GOODS-S | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (4) POINTING-4_HUDF_GOODS-S |
| POINTING-5_HUDF_GOODS-S | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (5) POINTING-5_HUDF_GOODS-S |
| POINTING-6_HUDF_GOODS-S | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (6) POINTING-6_HUDF_GOODS-S |

## ABSTRACT

The JWST/NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy (WFSS) mode has proven to be highly efficient and effective at detecting rest-frame optical and near-infrared emission lines for galaxies at high redshifts. Here, we propose to conduct a JWST/NIRCam WFSS survey over the Hubble Ultra Deep Field (HUDF) in GOODS-S with the F356W filter, achieving a 5-sigma line flux limit of roughly 2e-18 ergs/s/cm2 across a total survey area of roughly 20 square arcminutes (six individual pointings). We are targeting this region of the sky since it has the richest set of ancillary data (including JWST Cycle-1 observations from GTO-1207, GTO-1180, and GO-1895), spanning observed-frame wavelengths of 0.4 microns all the way out to 25 microns. Together, these data will produce a massive legacy sample of line-emitting galaxies over a wide redshift range with relatively simple selection functions (e.g. [OII] emitters at 7.5 < z < 9.4, [OIII] emitters at 5.2 < z < 6.8, and Halpha emitters at 3.7 < z < 4.9). Such a data set will allow a variety of science programs aimed at characterizing the physical properties of galaxies, including: line-luminosity functions; the production and escape of ionizing photons; the excitation, ionization, and metallicity of nebular regions; the morphology and kinematics of the interstellar medium; and the identification of the earliest galaxy clusters. JWST/MIRI observations with the F1800W filter will be taken in parallel, allowing for more precise stellar mass estimates and characterization of active galactic nuclei (AGN) beyond cosmic noon and all the way through the epoch of reionization.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will use the JWST/NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy (WFSS) mode with the F356W filter to observe the Hubble Ultra Deep Field (HUDF) in GOODS-S. Grism R will be used as required by the design of our six pointings, and we will make use of both NIRCam modules in order to maximize the total survey area. When combined with the partially overlapping FRESCO data in the F444W filter (GO-1895), the proposed program will achieve a contiguous wavelength coverage from 3.1 microns out to 5.0 microns. Based on our independent analysis of the FRESCO data, we have measured a median 5-sigma line flux limit of roughly 2e-18 ergs/s/cm2 around 4.2 microns. The goal of this proposal is to reach a similar depth with the F356W filter, producing a legacy data set with a nearly uniform line flux sensitivity over the combined wavelength coverage of 3.1-5.0 microns.
We will integrate for roughly 1160 seconds per integration, with six groups per integration (larger than the minimum number of groups required for good cosmic-ray removal) and one integration per exposure using the DEEP8 readout mode. This observing pattern was chosen to minimize detector noise. At each individual dither position, we will obtain simultaneous short-wavelength (SW) imaging with the F150W filter, making use of the six-point INTRAMODULEBOX primary-dither pattern in order to fill the gaps between the four SW detectors while maximizing the area of full-depth for the LW detector. Furthermore, the design of our six pointings produces a contiguous area for the JWST/MIRI parallel observations.
The total charged time is 19.5 hours, which consists of 13.1 hours of science time and 13.0 hours of parallel time.