---
id: 4553
proposal_type: "gto"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 12.5
program_title: "IFU observations of high redshift galaxies"
type: ""
---
# 4553 - IFU observations of high redshift galaxies
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4553
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                 | Observing Template         | Science Target |
| :-------------------- | :------------------------- | :------------- |
|                       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy   | (1) Gz9p3      |
| WOPR copy of obs. 1 | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy   | (1) Gz9p3      |
|                       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy   | (2) Clumpy     |

---

## ABSTRACT

We focus on high-redshift galaxies with substracture by targeting them with the NIRSpec IFU

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We observe high-redshift galaxies with known substructure using the NIRSpec IFU in order to study their physical conditions as a function of position.

The first target is Gz9p3 (Boyett et al.). It is spectroscopically confirmed at redshift 9.31 and shows multiple clumps The available NIRSpec MSA G395H exposure is truncated at ~4microns and therefore doesn't include Hbeta and OIII. We are planning a G396H IFU exposure. The chip gap will cover the NeIII line but we should be able to detect OII, Hbeta and OIII and possibly other lines as a function of position.

The second target is a pair of galaxies likely members of the A2744-z7p9OD protocluster at redshift 7.9. One object is ZD6 and is spectroscopically confirmed at t z=7.88. The second object has the same colors as its neighbor ZD6 and it is likely to be at the same redshift. Both objects show clumps or substrcture and are fully included in the IFU field of view. The G395H exposure should include multiple emission lines incl. OIII (seen in ZD6 low res spectrum), Hbeta and other lines. The intercip gap will not fall on any major emission line.

For the second target, as the two objects are separate for ~3 arcsec, we put constraints on PA so both will fit within the FoV of IFU. The acceptable Apertura PA range is either [0:30], [90:120], [180:210], or [270:300]. (But at [0:30] we see a warning for meteostrikes; this range should be avoided.)