---
id: 4554
proposal_type: "ddt"
cycle: 2
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 4.7
program_title: "Revealing the progenitor of the dirty fireball gamma-ray burst AT 2023lcr through its supernova component"
type: ""
---
# 4554 - Revealing the progenitor of the dirty fireball gamma-ray burst AT 2023lcr through its supernova component
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4554
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                      | Observing Template              | Science Target |
| :------------------------- | :------------------------------ | :------------- |
| JWST - Photometry          | NIRCam Imaging                  | (1) AT2023lcr  |
| JWST Spectroscopy epoch 1 | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (1) AT2023lcr  |

## ABSTRACT

AT2023lcr is a transient at redshift 1.0272 with multi-wavelength observations consistent with an on-axis gamma-ray burst (GRB) afterglow with narrow jet. However, no gamma-ray prompt emission was detected in the direction of the transient making it the best dirty fireball candidate observed to date. Dirty fireballs are GRB with sub-relativistic jet unable to create the typical bright flash of gamma-ray radiation, known as GRB prompt emission, seen in typical GRBs. We propose using JWST's NIRCam and NIRSpec as well as HST's NIR camera, to study photometrically and spectroscopically the supernova (SN) component associated to this rare GRB case confirming its collapsar nature, with a total of 4.75 hours of JWST observations and 3 orbits of HST observations. The relatively high-redshift of this target makes the expected SN peak at around 1.2-1.4 microns. Additionally, the expected magnitudes of the SN component fall below the limits for ground-based telescopes, making JWST and HST uniquely suited for this detailed study. The SN spectral observations will reveal crucial information regarding the progenitor and its circumstellar environment. These data will allow us to determine, for the first time, if dirty fireballs come from progenitors similar to typical GRBs, improving our understanding of the role played by mildly relativistic jets during stellar collapse and how these rare cases fit in the full diversity of stellar explosions.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We request a joint campaing with JWST and HST to study the supernova component associated to the dirty fireball AT 2023lcr.

Our observing strategy can be divided between spectroscopy with NIRSpec and photometry (NIRCAM and NIR camera onboard HST)

The two NIRSpec observations will be taken 10 days apart. Both of them will use the Prism with a fixed slit of 0.4”, NRSRAPID readout and full subarray. The first observation will consist of 50 groups per integration, 2 integrations per exposure and 6 exposures per specification (6 dithers) for a total observing time of 6570.9 s. The second observation will consists of 70 groups per integration, 2 integrations per exposure and 6 exposures per specification (6 dithers) for a total observing time of 9147.72 s.

During the first NIRSpec observation we will also observe the source photometrically with NIRCAM configured with the SHALLOW4 readout mode, Full subarray with 5 groups per integration, 1 integration per exposure and 4 exposures per specification (4 dithers) for a total exposure time of 2061.46 s using F115W, F150W F277W and F356W.

The HST observations will consists of 3 visits 7 days apart each, with an exposure of 3000 s (3 dithers) per visit, observing with the F125W and F160W) fiters.