---
id: 4557
proposal_type: "ddt"
cycle: 2
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 10.8
program_title: "JWST/NIRSpec confirmation of z~3 transients found by JWST/NIRCam"
type: ""
---
# 4557 - JWST/NIRSpec confirmation of z~3 transients found by JWST/NIRCam
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4557
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label          | Observing Template                | Science Target                  |
| :------------- | :-------------------------------- | :------------------------------ |
| plan_639_v2    | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (3)mpt_input_2023_09_25         |
| plan_2023_10_31 | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (4) mpt_input_2023 10 17        |

## ABSTRACT

JWST has opened up a new window of time-domain science in the infrared at unprecedented sensitivity. This is pushing the search for supernovae to higher redshifts and will likely find new types of transients. This DDT program will target three transients recently discovered by the only NIRCam monitoring program spanning the full duration of JWST Cycle 1, which had 3 epochs of 4-band NIRCam observations with a 6-month cadence in the historic Spitzer IRAC Dark Field. The NIRCam monitoring was facilitated by a separate HST ACS program whose observations were contemporaneous with the 2nd and 3rd NIRCam epochs. We propose these three transients for NIRSpec MSA spectroscopy because they are likely at z~3, which is in the redshift frontier for transients that is just beginning to be explored by JWST. In addition, they are all special: (1) one has no detectable host to 30.4 mag (2-sigma) and its SED has a very sharp break (>2.7 mag) at ~7000A suggestive of z~4.7; (2) one is associated with a galaxy at z~3 and its SED is consistent with a SN Ia; (3) one has lasted for over 6 months but has an SED difficult to be explained by a slow-changing SN IIP, and its host galaxy is likely at z~2.9. As the confirmed redshift record for SNe of any type is z=2.37, these transients are strong contenders of a new record. This is the first time that such diverse high-z IR transients are revealed in detail, all in one blank field of 14.2 arcmin^2. Spectroscopic confirmations from this DDT program will present a unique opportunity to put the JWST exploration of the transient IR sky on a solid footing, regardless of whether these three transients are SNe or something even more interesting.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This program is to do NIRSpec MSA prism spectroscopy on three transients recently found (July 2023) from a unique JWST NIRCam monitoring program that spaned the full duration of Cycle 1 in three epochs that were 6 months apart. The field (Spitzer IRAC Dark Field) is in the JWST CVZ, but we do have a special request on the observing window. The three transients can be covered by the MSA in one pointing, but the PA has to be around 210 degrees to put all three onto good slits. This limits the observing window to October 2023.