---
id: 4583
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/LRS  NIRSpec/FS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Aleks Scholz  Co-PIs: Ray Jayawardhana and Koraljka Muzic"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "21.54/0.0"
program_title: "Exploring planetary nurseries around free-floating planetary mass objects"
type: "GO"
---
# 4583 - Exploring planetary nurseries around free-floating planetary mass objects
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4583
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                   | Observing Template                | Science Target          |
| :---------------------- | :-------------------------------- | :---------------------- |
| MIRI, target 1          | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy  | (1) UGC0417+2832        |
| MIRI, target 2          | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy  | (2) UGC0422+2655        |
| MIRI, target 3          | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy  | (3) UGC0439+2642        |
| MIRI, target 4          | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy  | (4) UGC0433+2251        |
| MIRI, target 5          | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy  | (5) UHWJ247.95-24.78    |
| MIRI, target 7          | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy  | (7) CHA1110-7721        |
| MIRI, target 8          | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy  | (8) CHA1110-7633        |
| MIRI, target 9          | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy  | (9) CHA1107-7626        |
| NIRSPEC, target 1       | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy  | (1) UGC0417+2832        |
| NIRSPEC, target 2       | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy  | (2) UGC0422+2655        |
| NIRSPEC, target 3       | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy  | (3) UGC0439+2642        |
| NIRSPEC, target 4       | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy  | (4) UGC0433+2251        |
| NIRSPEC, target 5       | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy  | (5) UHWJ247.95-24.78    |
| NIRSPEC, target 7       | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy  | (7) CHA1110-7721        |
| NIRSPEC, target 8       | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy  | (8) CHA1110-7633        |
| NIRSPEC, target 9       | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy  | (9) CHA1107-7626        |

---

## ABSTRACT

Deep surveys in star-forming regions have discovered free-floating planetary-mass objects (FFPMOs), with masses comparable to those of giant exoplanets. It is not yet clear whether such objects form like stars, through core collapse, or represent ejected planets assembled initially in circumstellar disks. Neither is it known whether FFPMOs could harbor their own miniature planetary systems. Here we propose a reconnaissance survey of eight of the lowest-mass objects known with robust evidence of infrared excess emission due to a disk, using NIRSPEC-PRISM and MIRI-LRS, to address these questions. In particular, we plan to characterize FFPMO disks by (1) deriving the dust geometry from the 3-12micron SED slope; (2) determining the degree of dust processing from the 10micron silicate feature; and (3) characterising the central sources from the 1-3micron spectrum. Taken together, these three tests will probe the potential for planet formation in disks surrounding the lowest mass free-floating objects hitherto explored, eliciting comparisons to the Jovian system, and also inform the discussion about the formation of FFPMOs themselves.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We have defined a sample of 8 free-floating planetary mass objects, all with estimated masses of 5-10 Mjup and ages of 1-2 Myr. From our analysis, all show evidence for mid-infrared excess emission at 3-8 microns due to a disk. With our proposal, we want to characterise these disks and look for signs of ongoing planet formation. Specifically, we plan to obtain a full low-resolution spectrum from 1 to 14 microns, using NIRSPEC/PRISM (1-5 micron) and MIRI/LRS (5-14 micron). The observations are desgined to yield a signal to noise ratio of >10 across the entire wavelength range. The domain from 1 to 14 microns includes a) the wavelengths where the excess kicks in (3-5micron), b) the critical silicate feature at 8-12 microns, and c) the JHK bands useful for the characterisation of the central objects.

With NIRSPEC, we plan to take a spectrum in PRISM mode for each of our targets, achieving a signal to noise of at least 40 across the wavelength range 1-5 micron. This requires about 10 min of on-source time for all our targets, which we will split in 4 dither positions, 3 integrations per dither, and 3 groups per integration. We follow the standard recommendations for this observing mode and link to the relevant ETC calculation.

With MIRI we want to take a spectrum in LRS mode for each of our targets, achieving a signal to noise of at least 10 up to a wavelength of 13 microns, plus flux estimates at 13-14 microns through binning. For our goals, we require 60 min on-source time, split in 2 dither positions, 8 integrations per dither, and 80 groups per integration. Again we follow standard recipes for this observing mode.

Combining the NIRSPEC and MIRI spectra, we will acquire a full 1-14 micron spectrum for all our targets. This will be used to calculate spectral slopes, characterise the silicate feature, and look for dips in the SED, all indications of the onset or the progression of planet formation.