---
id: 4586
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging  MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Yuichi Harikane"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "29.02/0.0"
program_title: "MIRI Spectroscopy of the Brightest Galaxy Spectroscopically-Confirmed at z>11 to Understand the Origin of the Overabundance of Early Luminous Galaxies"
type: "GO"
---
# 4586 - MIRI Spectroscopy of the Brightest Galaxy Spectroscopically-Confirmed at z>11 to Understand the Origin of the Overabundance of Early Luminous Galaxies
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4586
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
### 1. List of Labels, Observing Template, and Science Targets (OBSERVATIONS Table)

| Folder Observation | Label          | Observing Template                | Science Target    |
| :----------------- | :------------- | :-------------------------------- | :---------------- |
| 1                  | Ha             | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) CEERS2\_588   |
| 6                  | Ha 2           | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) CEERS2\_588   |
| 2                  | OIII           | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) CEERS2\_588   |
| 3                  | Imaging        | MIRI Imaging                      | (1) CEERS2\_588   |
| 4                  | Background Ha  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) CEERS2\_588   |
| 5                  | Background\_OIII | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) CEERS2\_588   |

## ABSTRACT

The JWST is currently unveiling a significant number of bright galaxies at z>11, both through photometry and spectroscopy. The remarkably high number density of these luminous galaxies, compared to theoretical model predictions, raises questions about potential differences in the physical properties of galaxies at such extreme redshifts and those at lower redshift. However, the exact physical mechanism responsible for this overabundance is still a subject of debate, primarily because the currently available NIRSpec dataset does not cover the rest-optical lines such as Ha and [OIII] at z>11, which are essential for investigating key physical properties. Given that GN-z11 at z=10.60 (being observed in Cycle 2) exhibits atypical features, studying another bright galaxy at z~11 with MIRI is crucial for understanding the physical origins responsible for the overabundance.

In this proposal, we aim to conduct MIRI MRS spectroscopy and imaging of CEERS2-588, the most luminous galaxy spectroscopically confirmed at z>11. These observations will yield detections of strong rest-optical lines and allow us to investigate critical physical properties such as stellar mass, star formation rate, metallicity, AGN activity, and burstiness, which are of intense interest in the context of the overabundance of z>11 galaxies. The successful detection will open the door to ambitious follow-up observations targeting more z>11 galaxies to obtain a comprehensive understanding of properties of early galaxies. Conversely, the absence of these emission lines would pose an immediate question about the nature of this galaxy, which appears UV-luminous despite indications of extremely weak emission lines.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This program will perform MIRI MRS spectroscopy and F560W imaging of CEERS2-588, the brightest galaxy spectroscopically confirmed at z>11. We aim to detect rest-frame optical strong emission lines, Ha and [OIII]5007, as well as the stellar continuum. We will use the Medium (B) and Short (A) gratings in Channels 1 and 2, respectively, which cover wavelengths of ~6 um and ~8 um, where the [OIII]5007 and Halpha lines are redshifted. In the MediumB grating, we can also target [OIII]4959 and Hbeta. We aim to detect the [OIII]5007 and Halpha lines at 10 sigma levels.