---
id: 4598
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging  NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Marusa Bradac  Co-PIs: Gregor Rihtarsic and Marcin Sawicki"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "16.85/9.14"
program_title: "Silver Bullet for Dark Matter"
type: "GO"
---
# 4598 - Silver Bullet for Dark Matter
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4598
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                                                              | Observing Template             | Science Target       |
| :----------------------------------------------------------------- | :----------------------------- | :------------------- |
| NIRCam                                                             | NIRCam Imaging                 | (1) BulletCluster    |
| AN_TOPLRD_50x50_0.04_NoMC_manualedit_demoted_nostuckopen           | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (10) TOPLRD          |

---

## ABSTRACT

The principal objective of this proposal is to study the nature of dark matter by using a merging galaxy cluster. Gravitational lensing provides a unique tool transforming these clusters into dark matter laboratories. The pioneering example, the Bullet Cluster, is an ideal laboratory for detecting dark matter and distinguishing between cold dark matter (CDM) and other scenarios (e.g., self-interacting dark matter). With this proposal, the limits on the dark matter self-interaction cross-section will be improved (by a factor of 4, to <0.2cm^2/g) to the extent that the possibility that dark matter self-interactions might explain the observed non-cuspy mass profiles can be fully excluded. To pin down the position of the dark matter component we require high resolution, absolutely calibrated mass maps that will be compared to simulations. The combination of weak and strong lensing measurements is needed to attain this goal. This can only be achieved with the excellent resolving power and spectroscopic capabilities of JWST. We therefore request NIRCam and NIRSpec observations of the Bullet Cluster. The combination of constraints from multiply lensed images (identified via color information and spectroscopy) and high-resolution weak lensing data will allow us to construct, self-consistently, the mass distribution from the very center to the outskirts. With this proposal we will further improve the selection of cluster members and measure their velocity to unambiguosly separate the baryonic and DM components. The proposal will enable investigations of the nature and properties of dark matter, and how it shapes galaxies and galaxy clusters and their evolution through cosmic time.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The aim of these observations is to perform NIRCam imaging and NIRSpec spectroscopy of the Bullet Cluster.

1. NIRCam Imaging with NIRISS on a parallel field.

One NIRCam module, using a FULL dither pattern, to cover the detector gaps due to the geometry and simultaneous imaging of the subcluster. Filters as follows SW: F090W, F115W, F150W, F200W and LW: F277W, F356W, F410M, F444W. The NIRISS WFSS parallels use the F115W filter with both grisms and the F150W and F200W filters with only one grism. We understand observing in parallel with one grism in these 2 filters will lead to a higher fraction of targets affected by spectral contamination, however based on experience with NIRISS data such approach is maneagble.

2. NIRSpec Multi-Object R=100 Spectroscopy on the cluster field with NIRCam imaging on a parallel field

The NIRSpec multi-object spectroscopy will be targeted with a combination NIRCam pre-imaging obtained in this program (1. above) and of known sources from existing HST observations. High-priority targets are galaxies that are multiply imaged based on NIRCam imaging. The catalogs and MSA configurations in this APT file are therefore just placeholders to be changed when the NIRCam pre-imaging is obtained and processed. For NIRSpec Prime we will use NIRCAM parallels with SW: F090W, F150W, F200W and LW: F356W, F410M, F444W.

3. ORIENT, background and schedule constraints:

We require at least 60 days between the NIRCam pre-imaging and NIRSpec observations to allow for data processing, analysis and target selection.

We have analysed whether the observations are background-limited and should require the setting of a "Background Limited" special requirement following the procedure outlined on JDOX. All of the NIRCam observations are background limited and we set this special requirement with a limit of "Background no more than 20% above minimum". There is no need for such a requirement with NIRSpec.

There is an ORIENT (V3PA) constraints on the NIRCAM 10 20 deg and NIRSpec observations 85 105 for NIRSpec. Observations are schedulable given all constraints.