---
id: 4604
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Michael Brown"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "7.94/0.0"
program_title: "The source of the gas plumes of Enceladus"
type: "GO"
---
# 4604 - The source of the gas plumes of Enceladus
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4604
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                  | Observing Template       | Science Target        |
| :--------------------- | :----------------------- | :-------------------- |
| Enceladus-45           | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (2) Enceladus         |
| Enceladus-135          | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (2) Enceladus         |
| Enceladus-225          | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (2) Enceladus         |
| Enceladus-225-LEAKCAL  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (3) Enceladus-LEAKCAL |
| Enceladus-315          | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (2) Enceladus         |
| Enceladus-315-LEAKCAL  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (3) Enceladus-LEAKCAL |

---

## ABSTRACT

Ever since the discovery of salt particles in the plumes of Enceladus, these plumes have been widely thought to be directly connected to the subsurface ocean. At least one observation is inconsistent with this interpretation, however. Current plume models predict that the water vapor and the particle jets in the plume are intimately connected and should vary in sync. The particle jets have been imaged thousands of times and are known to vary in intensity within a single orbit in an extremely repeatable pattern, with a factor of six or more variation between the pericenter and apocenter of the Enceladus orbit. The vapor component of the plume, in contrast, appears to vary by no more than +/-15% over the entire Cassini mission. Unfortunately, the vapor component has been sparely sampled in both time and space, so its true variability is difficult to assess, and suggestions have been made that the lack of observed variability is just due to coincidences of timing. Resolving this discrepancy is critical. If indeed the vapor component of the plume does not vary with the particle jets, our models of the source mechanism of the plumes, as well as potential connections to the underlying ocean, require serious reevaluation. JWST can resolve this question. We propose to make the first ever observations of the vapor component of the plumes of Enceladus over the course of a single Enceladus orbit. These observations will quickly and definitely determine how much, if any, of the vapor component of the plume varies in sync with the particulate jets, allowing us to determine the true connection between the plumes and subsurface ocean.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

These observations are designed to observe the H2O gas plume of Enceladus at 4 positions over the course of a single Enceladus orbit, in order to determine if the gas emission varies with the known variation of the particle jets. The need to observe over a single orbit requires that two of the observations occur when Saturn will be situataed on the MSA, so leak calibrations are also included for these observations by constructing an artificial target which has the orbit of Enceladus but lags behind by 72 minutes, the expected time between the start of the Enceladus and leak observations. The precise position of the artifical target can be easily updated as the observations are better refined.