---
id: 4607
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Chick Woodward"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "7.43/0.0"
program_title: "The Enigma of the Recurrent nova T Coronae Borealis - A ToO"
type: "GO, Carry-Over ToO, Non-Disruptive ToO"
---
# 4607 - The Enigma of the Recurrent nova T Coronae Borealis - A ToO
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4607
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label            | Observing Template                  | Science Target            |
| :--------------- | :---------------------------------- | :------------------------ |
| TCrB-OnSource    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) V-T-CrB               |
| TCrB-BKGRND      | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) V-T-CrB-Background    |
| TCrB-OnSource    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) V-T-CrB               |
| TCrB-BKGRND      | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) V-T-CrB-Background    |
| TCrB-OnSource    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) V-T-CrB               |
| TCrB-BKGRND      | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) V-T-CrB-Background    |
| TCrB-OnSource    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) V-T-CrB               |
| TCrB-BKGRND      | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) V-T-CrB-Background    |
| TCrB-OnSource    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) V-T-CrB               |
| TCrB-BKGRND      | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) V-T-CrB-Background    |

## ABSTRACT

**ABSTRACT**

One of the most famous and brightest novae, the recurrent nova (RN) T Coronae Borealis, is expected to erupt during the period 2025.5 +/- 1.3. With only two recorded eruptions in 1866 and 1946, it has never been studied in the IR. T CrB declines in visual brightness very quickly after the nova explodes. During this decline towards quiescence, important and profound physical changes occur in the ejecta; e.g., the line profiles show rapid changes and coronal lines appear. Using the MRS IFU, we will observe and analyze the evolutions of: (1) shocks propagating through the ejecta, (2) the changes in velocity profiles of the emission lines, (3) the coronal line emission, deriving elemental abundances from the H, He and coronal lines, (4) dust features in the SED, and (5) ejecta-wind interactions and the possibility of discovering a light echo in the surrounding circumstellar environs. JWST observations will provide unprecedented insight into details of the nova's expanding fireball. They will have an invaluable impact on understanding symbiotic RNe, systems potentially Type Ia SN progenitors as their white dwarfs (WD) seem to exhibit a net accretion of material (i.e., from the Red Giant onto the WD minus that ejected in the RN explosion). This non-disruptive ToO will yield a thorough documentation of all phases (5 visits) of post-eruption evolution. JWST will contribute significantly to and complement a community-wide panchromatic observational campaign to study this extraordinary event. The T Crb event will further our understanding of RNe, yielding insight into Type Ia SN, which are key to determining cosmic large-scale structure.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This is a target of opportunity (ToO) program as the observations are linked to an event that may occur at an unknown time. ToO targets include objects that can be identified in advance but which undergo unpredictable changes, as well as objects that can only be identified in advance as a class (e.g., T Crb is a recurrent novae). This proposal is a Non-disruptive ToO: A ToO for which the activation time is greater than 14 days. Special time constraints are selected to schedule the potential observations during peroids where the target is the the MAZ Safe Zone at the scientifically relevant cadence. The exact time and which window will be selected dependent on trigger, when the recurrent nova goes into outburst as communicated by various transient event brokers (ASSAN, Astronomer's Telegram [ATels], CBAT, etc.) The Principal Investigator (PI) or designated alternate will initiate activation of the Target of Opportunity (ToO) proposal by submitting an activation request, and then, after submitting the request, the PI (or alternate) will contact their Program Coordinator (PC) and verify that the activation request has been received by the Institute. We propose to observe T Crb with MRS in all bands and channels, on 5 temporally seperate synoptic epochs to follow the dynamic evolution of the eruption. Complete execution of the program may require observations scheduling over the nominal cycle boundary after initial activation, so long-term status is requested. Estimates of the probability of occurrence during Cy3 is 80%.