---
id: 4611
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRISS/AMI"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Enrique Lopez-Rodriguez"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "6.03/0.0"
program_title: "Baselines: Revealing the central extended emision of Circinus with interferometric mode"
type: "GO"
---
# 4611 - Baselines: Revealing the central extended emision of Circinus with interferometric mode
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4611
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label              | Observing Template                  | Science Target   |
| :----------------- | :---------------------------------- | :--------------- |
| Circinus PA1       | NIRISS Aperture Masking Interferometry | (1) Circinus     |
| HD119164 PA1       | NIRISS Aperture Masking Interferometry | (2) HD119164     |
| Circinus PA2       | NIRISS Aperture Masking Interferometry | (1) Circinus     |
| HD119164 PA2       | NIRISS Aperture Masking Interferometry | (2) HD119164     |
| Circinus PA3       | NIRISS Aperture Masking Interferometry | (1) Circinus     |
| HD119164 PA3       | NIRISS Aperture Masking Interferometry | (2) HD119164     |

## ABSTRACT

The dusty and molecular torus is one of the most elusive structures in active galactic nuclei (AGN), yet its importance is unequivocal for understanding the effects of accretion and feedback during galaxy evolution and provides constraints for theoretical models of galaxy formation. NIR observations are sensitive to the hot dust (1500-500K), which traces the inner edge of the torus, and/or the base of torus walls or dusty winds. Surprisingly, the measured 3-5um excess emission in AGN since first observed in the early '90s still remains a mystery. This observed NIR excess is thought to arise from hot dusty winds, hot graphite dust within the torus and the broad line region, and/or residual starlight from the host galaxy. Thus, the identification of the physical structure and/or mechanism producing the NIR excess will allow us to connect the accretion disk with the reservoir of gas feeding it.

JWST NIRISS Aperture Masking Interferometry (AMI) can provide resolved 3.8-4.8um images of the dusty environments within the central 10 pc in nearby Seyfert galaxies. NIRISS AMI improves the angular resolution by a factor of two (0.07" vs. 0.14" at 4.3um), while minimizing the PSF artifacts shown by NIRCAM. The possibility of unveiling the hot (1500-500 K) dusty material within the central 0.1" of AGN relies on making NIRISS AMI a user-friendly and standard observing mode of JWST for the AGN community. This proposal requests 3.8-4.8um NIRISS AMI observations to provide unprecedented 1.8-2.2pc-scale resolved observations of the central 10pc in Circinus. These observations will reveal the location and physical properties of the NIR excess emission measured in Seyfert galaxies.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

**OBSERVING DESCRIPTION**
Steps per visit:
- PSF (HD 119164):
    - set NRM in AMIBRIGHT, NISRAPID, and F480M
    - perform target acquisition
    - set SUB80 detection readout in NISRAPID mode (dither: NONE) - Take exposure at F480M
    - Take exposure at F430M
    - Take exposure at F380M
- Circinus:
    - NRM in AMIBRIGHT, NISRAPID, and F480M
    - perform target acquisition
    - set SUB80 detection readout in NISRAPID mode (dither: NONE) - Take exposure at F480M
    - Take exposure at F430M
    - Take exposure at F380M
The PSF is observed using the same sequence as the science target. The observation of the PSF is linked with science target observations using GROUP NON-INITTERRUPTIVE special requirement.

These steps will be performed at three different PAs, in the sequence: - Visit 1 at PA1
- Visit 2 at PA2 = PA1 + 45+/-15deg.
- Visit 3 at PA3 = PA1 + 90+/-15deg.
- These observations are linked using V3 PA Offset special requirement.

The observations will use the AMI-specific SUB80 80x80 subarray with the NISRAPID readout patterns. The target and calibrator will be observed without dithers. The maximum fraction of saturation is 0.07 and 0.17 for PSF and target, respectively during the target acquisition.

NOTE about Offsets using AMIBRIGHT: The JWST Documentation (https://jwst-docs.stsci.edu/jwst-near- infrared-imager-and-slitless- spectrograph/niriss-observing-strategies/niriss-ami-recommended- strategies#NIRISSAMIRecommendedStrategies-TargetAcquisition) mentions that there is an offset when using AMIBRIGHT from the central pixel. The recommendation is 'to place a target in the pixel center for the F480M filter after using the AMIBRIGHT TA mode, a user can add an OFFSET special requirement of -0.0045 arcsec in X, +0.013 arcsec in Y. Alternately, a single OFFSET of +0.013 arcsec in Y applied to an observation using multiple filters would improve target centering overall'.
--> Our observations use multiple filters, we are requesting a single offset of +0.013 arcsec in Y to apply to the observations of the PSF and Circinus.