---
id: 4621
proposal_type: "ddt"
cycle: 2
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 4
program_title: "Time-sensitive observations of Chiron: a unique active Centaur beyond 15 AU"
type: ""
---
# 4621 - Time-sensitive observations of Chiron: a unique active Centaur beyond 15 AU
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4621
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label        | Observing Template       | Science Target    |
| :----------- | :----------------------- | :---------------- |
| CHIRON       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) CHIRON        |
| CHIRON BKG   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (2) CHIRON-OFFSET |

## ABSTRACT

Chiron is the one of the largest known Centaurs, i.e., inward-scattered objects from the Kuiper belt that reside in the giant planet region. As it was approaching aphelion at 18.8 AU in March 2021, Chiron experienced an outburst of cometary activity. A subsequent JWST observation in July 2023, obtained as part of a Cycle 1 GTO program, revealed evidence of methane and carbon dioxide outgassing and a perplexing absence of carbon monoxide emission. The unique spectral characteristics and extreme heliocentric distance of Chiron during its current active phase challenge our current understanding of distant cometary activity. Unfortunately, the July 2023 JWST spectrum does not have the requisite spectral resolution and sensitivity to enable proper assessment of Chiron's gas emission and coma properties. Continued photometric monitoring of Chiron since the 2021 outburst shows that its activity level is in a steady decline, and we propose to obtain DDT observations of Chiron during its next visibility window (November 2023-January 2024) to carry out timely intensive spectroscopic study before its activity subsides. We will leverage the high spectral resolution of the G395H grating to fully resolve the gas emission bands and derive precise constraints on the production rates. Accompanying exposures with the G235M grating will provide crucial information about the abundance of carbon dioxide ice on the surface and within the coma. The insights gleaned from these observations have the potential to reshape our fundamental understanding of the chemical composition and thermal evolution of distant planetesimals.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

To investigate the spectral features of gas- and solid-phase molecules and explore their spatial distributions, we plan to observe Chiron with the NIRSpec IFU. Long exposures with the G395H grating will provide the necessary spectral resolution to resolve individual gas emission lines and provide enhanced sensitivity to fine spatial structures in the surrounding coma. We will also collect exposures with the lower-resolution G235M grating to measure the spectral profile of the various carbon dioxide ice absorptions at 1.8-2.1 and 2.6-2.8 microns and map their spatial distribution. The NRSIRS2RAPID readout mode is chosen to increase the signal-to-noise ratio of these observations, while the four-point dither will help mitigate the effects of cosmic rays and detector artifacts. Given the extended coma around Chiron, we will obtain a dedicated background observation with the G395H grating immediately following the on-source observation.