---
id: 4627
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Michael Brown"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "21.83/0.0"
program_title: "Deuterium in the outer solar system"
type: "GO"
---
# 4627 - Deuterium in the outer solar system
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4627
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label      | Observing Template        | Science Target |
| :--------- | :------------------------ | :------------- |
| 2004NT33   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (1) 2004NT33   |
| 2002XV93   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (2) 2002XV93   |
| 2013LU28   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (3) 2013LU28   |

## ABSTRACT

The deuterium-to-hydrogen ratio (D/H) of bodies in the solar system holds some of the key tracers of protoplanetary nebular history, including the mixing of protostellar gas and ice and the source of the Earth's water. The inner Solar System, including the Earth's water, is enriched in D/H compared to the initial gaseous nebula and so demands an additional enriched source. Bodies which formed beyond the frost line and accreted unvaporized interstellar ice are expected to have the significantly higher D/H values associated with the ice component of the nebula and thus could be plausible sources of the Earth's water. Measurements of D/H in hydrated asteroids are clearly affected by alteration processes and return ambiguous values, with some higher and some lower than terrestrial. Comets, likewise, show a wide range of values which can clearly be affected by the cometary activity itself. We propose to measure D/H in the solid ice of a small pilot sample of icy TNOs/Centaurs by measuring absorption due to the fundament D-H stretch at 4.13 microns (the analog to the 3 micron O-H stretch). By measuring D/H in the solid phase on bodies which have presumably never had water sublimation, we will be making the first measurement of what should be the pristine D/H ratio in the outer solar nebula. If these pilot observations allow us to successfully measure D/H, they will open in new era in the exploration of the icy bodies of the outer solar system and their formation and evolutionary environments.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will observe three outer solar system bodies (two TNOs and one Centaur) at medium resolution and high signal-to-noise in order to detect and characterize the 4.13 micron feature due to the D-H stretch in HDO. Measurement of this feature, and comparison to the depth of the 2 micron feature from Cycle 1 data, will allow us to determine the D/H of the surface ice of these objects.