---
id: 4645
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Matthew Belyakov  Co-PIs: M. Ryleigh Davis"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "26.71/0.0"
program_title: "Reconstructing the Histories of the Ice Giant Systems through Small Satellite Observations"
type: "GO"
---
# 4645 - Reconstructing the Histories of the Ice Giant Systems through Small Satellite Observations
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4645
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label               | Observing Template      | Science Target |
| :------------------ | :---------------------- | :------------- |
| Puck                | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) Puck       |
| Portia              | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (2) PORTIA     |
| Miranda             | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (3) Miranda    |
| Miranda             | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (3) Miranda    |
| Sycorax             | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (4) Sycorax    |
| Sycorax             | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (4) Sycorax    |
| Caliban             | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (5) Caliban    |
| Galatea-1           | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (6) Galatea    |
| Galatea-2           | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (6) Galatea    |
| Larissa-1           | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (7) Larissa    |
| Larissa-2           | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (7) Larissa    |
| Proteus - Leading   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (8) Proteus    |
| Proteus - Trailing  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (8) Proteus    |
| Nereid              | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (9) Nereid     |

## ABSTRACT

Decades of ground-based observations, spacecraft exploration, and now NIRSpec data from JWST have characterized the Jovian and Saturnian satellite systems, leading to ground-breaking discoveries about the gas giants and their satellites. By contrast, observations of the Uranian and Neptunian systems are sparse, with ground-based observations of all but the brightest satellites hindered by their significantly farther distance and no dedicated spacecraft exploration. This lack of data, particularly of the fainter satellites, has made reconstructing the histories and current compositions of the ice giants' systems challenging, leaving vital open questions unanswered. We therefore propose to observe a representative sample of small interior, mid-sized, and irregular satellites of Uranus and Neptune with JWST/NIRSpec, seeking to answer open questions on the composition of the ice giants' subnebulae, to understand the specific compositions of the key satellites Miranda and Proteus, and to trace the individual evolutions of the two systems. JWST/NIRSpec is uniquely suited to probe the compositions of these faint Uranian and Neptunian satellites. The ices of these objects are expected to have strong absorption features in the 2.5-5.0 micron range, which cannot be studied from the ground due to telluric absorption. In the context of the NASA Planetary Science decadal survey's focus on Uranus and proposed Uranian orbiter mission, obtaining an understanding of the ice giants is now more vital than ever. These proposed observations will provide the single best opportunity to characterize targets of interests for future missions to Uranus and Neptune.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This medium program obtains NIRSpec observations of several small interior satellites of Uranus and Neptune, three irregular satellites, and the mid-sized moons Miranda and Proteus. Observations will be taken at a single phase in the PRISM mode, except for Proteus where we target both leading and trailing hemisphere observations, and Miranda which is bright enough to require NIRSpec IFU G235M and G395M spectra. We do not target leading/trailing observations for Miranda, as the sub-observer latitude is currently 70 degrees N and will not be below 30 degrees N for another two decades. We target a S/N capable of determining the presence and specific state of material on these satellites, paying particular attention to the water ice Fresnel peak at 3.1 microns, the CO2 and 13-CO2 absorptions near 4.26 and 4.38 microns, the CO absorption at 4.675 microns, the NH3 fundamental at 2.96, the OHN features between 3.05-3.2, and the methanol absorptions near 2.3 microns. Our S/N and associated exposure times are determined empirically using the ETC and publicly available NIRSpec observations from KBO program 2418 and 1-5 micron spectra of Saturn's B-ring and several small Saturnian satellites from Cassini VIMS, which include a variety of distinct spectral signatures which we may find in our target spectra.

The observations of the Neptunian interior satellites are targeted when the satellites are within ~0.55" of their maximum separation from Neptune, to minimize scattered light contamination from the planet. Additionally, due to their short orbital periods, we split the observations of Galatea and Larissa into two 2-point dithers to ensure that they do not pass too close to Neptune during an exposure. Additionally, we specify for our satellites a minimum separation from other nearby satellites to prevent scattered light contamination and ensure they are well-separated. For all satellites besides Galatea and Larissa, we use a 4-point dither to ensure proper background removal and select the NRSIRS2RAPID readout mode for optimal noise performance, except where the data volume is too large. This results in a total science time of 11.79 hours and a total charge time of 26.71 hours.