---
id: 4665
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Bryan Holler"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "18.75/0.0"
program_title: "Constraining the origin and dynamical evolution of extreme trans-Neptunian objects through NIR spectroscopy"
type: "GO"
---
# 4665 - Constraining the origin and dynamical evolution of extreme trans-Neptunian objects through NIR spectroscopy
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4665
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label        | Observing Template       | Science Target |
| :----------- | :----------------------- | :------------- |
| 2012 VP113   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) 2012VP113  |
| 2016 QV89    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (2) 2016QV89   |
| 2014 OS394   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (3) 2014OS394  |
| 2013 RA109   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (4) 2013RA109  |
| Alicanto     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (5) ALICANTO   |
| 2013 SL102   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (6) 2013SL102  |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose to obtain low-resolving power (R~100) near-infrared spectra of 6 extreme trans-Neptunian Objects (ETNOs) using the NIRSpec IFU and the Prism/CLEAR combination to constrain ETNO origins. The ETNOs are a unique and understudied population of trans-Neptunian objects with large perihelia (> 37 au) and semi-major axes (> 150 au) that could not have been placed on their current orbits via Neptune on its current orbit. The majority of the members of this population were only discovered within the past 10 years due to their faintness and no observations of ETNOs were approved in Cycle 1 or 2, representing a large gap in our understanding of the trans-Neptunian region. In this investigation, we will compare the spectra of the 6 ETNO targets to each other to determine if the population is compositionally heterogeneous and therefore formed in different regions of the solar nebula. We will also compare the ETNOs to objects in other TNO sub-populations to constrain their possible origins. The excellent sensitivity of JWST will provide us with an unparalleled opportunity to study these extreme and poorly understood objects as a stepping stone to addressing larger questions about the era of planetary migration, the possible presence of a distant outer planet, and the structure and formation of debris disks around other stars.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This program is composed of 6 observations, all using the NIRSpec IFU and the Prism/CLEAR combination. Each observation has a different target (listed below). None of the observations require target acquisition. There are no scheduling constraints placed on any of these observations. The only Solar System Target Window specified for each observation is the default 75~mas/s speed limit. These are all extreme trans-Neptunian objects (ETNOs) and therefore move at extremely low apparent rates (they do not approach the speed limit). All targets have at least 1 visibility window within the Cycle 3 period (July 1, 2024 - June 30, 2025) while outside the MAZ.

Observations of all objects are on-hold, except 2014 OS394 (which has a much smaller orbital uncertainty), pending updates to ephemeris precision.

The total charged time of the program is 18.75 hours. The total science time is 10.28 hours. The breakdown for each observation is below (ordered by the observation number in this APT file):

1.  2012 VP113: 2.27 hours (science), 3.78 hours (total)
2.  2016 QV89: 1.17 hours (science), 2.48 hours (total)
3.  2014 OS394: 0.68 hours (science), 1.91 hours (total)
4.  2013 RA109: 1.78 hours (science), 3.21 hours (total)
5.  Alicanto: 2.27 hours (science), 3.78 hours (total)
6.  2013 SL102: 2.11 hours (science), 3.59 hours (total)

Observations 1 & 5 have data volumes over the lower threshold, which does not require any action, per JDOX.