---
id: 4687
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: M. Ryleigh Davis"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "15.96/0.0"
program_title: "Constraining the Composition and Thermal Histories of Silicate Minerals on Callisto"
type: "GO"
---
# 4687 - Constraining the Composition and Thermal Histories of Silicate Minerals on Callisto
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4687
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                      | Observing Template                 | Science Target   |
| :------------------------- | :--------------------------------- | :--------------- |
| Callisto Leading           | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy| (1) Callisto     |
| Callisto Trailing          | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy| (1) Callisto     |
| Callisto Leading - Back    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy| (2) Callisto-Bkg |
| Callisto Trailing - Back   | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy| (2) Callisto-Bkg |

---

## ABSTRACT

The heavily cratered surface of Callisto, the outermost of Jupiter's Galilean moons, presents a unique opportunity to study the largest object in the solar system with a primordial surface affected only by cratering and irradiation. Callisto's surface is dominated by crystalline water ice inter-mixed with a dark non-ice component. Yet, despite nearly 50 years of spectroscopic study, the mineral composition of the dark material on Callisto remains unknown and we lack a clear understanding of its source - with possibilities ranging from primordial endogenic silicates to exogenic dust. We propose to observe the leading and trailing hemispheres of Callisto with MIRI MRS in order to confirm the presence of silicates on Callisto, determine their abundances, trace their thermal histories through the Fe/Mg ratio, and better understand the relationship between the endogenic material and exogenic processes that have shaped Callisto's surface over time.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This small program obtains MIRI MRS observations of the leading and trailing hemispheres of Callisto with a total science time of around 8.33 hours and total charge time of 15.96 hours. With a targeted S/N to identify a 5% contrast silicate emission peak near the 10 m silicate fundamental bands, we aim to provide robust constraints on the composition of silicate minerals on Callisto and gain insights into their thermal history by determining the Fe/Mg ratio to better than 10%. The somewhat stringent leading hemisphere sub-observer longitude constraints ensure sufficient coverage of the Valhalla impact basin in order to allow direct comparison of the mineral compositions in the leading and trailing hemispheres and between Valhalla and the nearby leading hemisphere mid-latitudes, which have been shown to be potentially compositionally distinct.

We will use MIRI MRS with all three grating settings to ensure full spectral coverage through 12 microns. We will use the 4-point dither pattern for extended targets and acquire simultaneous background observations with a 20 arcsec offset perpendicular to Callisto's orbital plane. Since integration groups higher than 5 are likely to saturate beyond 9 microns, we model this portion of our observing plan off of the successful Ganymede MIRI observations and use 5 groups per integration. We select 60 integrations at each grating setting, as required to match our targeted 10 micron S/N.