---
id: 4691
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Jinyi Yang"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "16.24/0.0"
program_title: "Investigating an Extreme [OIII] Outflow Discovered in a Reionization-era Luminous Quasar"
type: "GO"
---
# 4691 - Investigating an Extreme [OIII] Outflow Discovered in a Reionization-era Luminous Quasar
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4691
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
|---|---|---|
| (empty) | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) J0224-4711 |
| (empty) | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (2) SKY |

## ABSTRACT

Observations of z>6 quasars have revealed the existence of billion solar-mass supermassive black holes (SMBHs) and massive host galaxies with intense star formation in the early Universe. A key open question is whether and how the energy output by these first SMBHs regulates the star formation in their host galaxies through quasar feedback. The [OIII] 4959,5007 doublet is regarded as a primary tracer of galactic-scale outflows, but related studies have been largely limited to z<3.5 until the advent of JWST due to limitations in wavelength coverage, resolution, and sensitivity. Quasar J0224-4711 at z=6.5 was observed with JWST NIRCam/WFSS in Cycle 1, and shows signatures of an extreme [OIII] outflow. It is the only case known in high-redshift quasars so far, and one of the most extreme quasar [OIII] outflows known over cosmic time. This system is clearly showcasing one of the most powerful quasar feedback events ever observed. Existing data are limited to shallow slitless spectroscopy. Thus, we propose deep NIRSpec/IFU observations to investigate this strong outflow and the quasar-host galaxy system. The proposed observations will resolve the [OIII] outflow spatially and spectroscopically to map its spatial extent, measure its kinematic properties, and probe the wind-driving mechanism. We will also be able to characterize the host galaxy properties by constraining its spectral energy distribution and mapping narrow emission lines. The observations will reveal the nature of the most powerful AGN feedback known in distant quasars and will be a milestone in our understanding of SMBH-host galaxy interaction, particularly during the early, fast-growing stage of the SMBH.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We proposed NIRSpec/IFU observations of a quasar at z=6.5 which is found to have extreme [OIII] outflow signatures. The proposed IFU observations will resove the [OIII] outflow and characterise the outflow and the quasar host galaxy.

We choose G395H/F290LP to cover the main emission lines from H-beta to H-alpha (~ 3.66 to 4.94 micron). G395H is selected for higher resolution (R ~ 2700, 110 km/s), which is needed for kinematic modeling. Given our science goals, the on-source exposure time estimated using the JWST ETC is 10.5 hours. Including background observation, MSA leakage calibration, and overhead, the total charged time is 16.2 hours.

We will use the NRSIRS2 readout pattern with 9-point dither (CYCLING-SMALL), 19 groups per integration, and 3 integrations per exposure (~ 1400s per integrations).