---
id: 4706
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging  MIRI/MRS  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Jan Cami"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "22.16/0.0"
program_title: "Fullerenes in Tc 1: a quantitative study of the interaction of large molecules with their radiative environment."
type: "GO"
---
# 4706 - Fullerenes in Tc 1: a quantitative study of the interaction of large molecules with their radiative environment.
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4706
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                        | Observing Template                 | Science Target              |
| :--------------------------- | :--------------------------------- | :-------------------------- |
| PN Tc 1 MIRI Imaging         | MIRI Imaging                       | (8) PN-TC-1                 |
| PN Tc 1 MRS On               | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (9) PN-TC-1-MRS             |
| PN Tc 1 MRS Off              | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (10) PN-TC1-OFF             |
| PN Tc 1 MIRI Imaging OFF     | MIRI Imaging                       | (12) PN-TC1-MIRI-Im-OFF     |
| PN Tc 1 On NIRSpec           | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy           | (11) PN-TC-1-NIRSpec        |
| PN Tc 1 Off                  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy           | (10) PN-TC1-OFF             |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose to observe the unique fullerene-rich planetary nebula Tc 1 with MIRI (MRS and Imaging) and NIRSpec-IFU to carry out a spatially resolved study of the spectral characteristics of C60 ("buckyballs") and their dependence on the physical conditions. Our goal is to elucidate the excitation, formation and evolution of fullerenes in radiative environments.

Tc~1 is the ideal target since it is geometrically simple, resolved (12" diameter), and its spectrum shows little contamination by other species. Our key objective is to measure the spectral characteristics of the main C60 emission bands (at 7.0, 8.5, 17.4 and 18.9 micron) across the main nebula, from the intense radiative environment near the hot central star (Teff=34,000~K) to the Photo-Dissociation Region beyond the ionization front. We will use atomic emission lines to determine the local physical conditions (temperature, density, radiation field). We will thus be able to describe quantitatively how fullerenes respond to changes in their environment. We will also search for and characterize other fullerenes and compounds (e.g. C60+, C70+ and hydrogenated fullerenes).

This detailed description will provide key insights into the excitation mechanism of large aromatic species in radiative environments, and offer much needed constraints on the (photo-)chemical pathways to fullerenes in evolved stars. We will use this study to calibrate models for the excitation, ionization and processing of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) that are widespread and abundant in the Universe, and play key roles in large-scale astrophysical processes such as star and planet formation and galaxy evolution.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will observe the C60-rich planetary nebula Tc 1 to study how C60 and other fullerenes respond to changes in their physical environment. Tc 1 has a hot central star that is surrounded by a dusty torus (3 arc seconds in diameter), and a larger ionized region (12 arc seconds in diameter). At the edge of this ionized region is a ring of enhanced fullerene emission, and some C60 emission is visible beyond that ionized region in the PDR. To spatially and spectroscopically resolve the fullerene features in these different environments, our observations include a combination of IFU spectroscopy at selected positions and imaging of larger areas.

**Tc1 MIRI Imaging:**
*   1 on position with BRIGHTSKY subarray.
*   9 MIRI filters with 5 groups & 1 integration each.
*   4-point dither pattern ensures good PSF sampling at all wavelengths.
*   Total depth is driven by the need to avoid saturation. S/N obtained will be from a few 100 to >1000 in all filter settings.
*   Special requirements: Added a small offset to center PN in mosaic.

**Tc1 MIRI MRS:**
*   One 3x1 mosaic; one off position. The targets of these positions are linked under 'Fixed Targets' for background subtraction.
*   The mosaic is designed so that the smallest apertures are contiguous, with a 5% overlap.
*   All three mosaic positions use the same setup.
*   There is no need for Target Acquisition.
*   210 groups, 1 integration, 1 exposure for MRSSHORT(A); 30x7x1 for MRSLONG(A); 120x1x1 for (B) and 60x1x1 for (C). Driven by S/N requirements while avoiding saturation.
*   4-point dither for good PSF sampling; 2-point dither for background off position.
*   Special requirements: None added, but ideally, there should be an uninterruptible sequence for background subtraction (targets linked under Fixed Targets). We have added an Aperture PA Range to ensure that the IFU covers a bright region in the fullerene ring; depending on the chose PA, either MIRI or NIRSpec appears to point into the MAZ though. We also added small offset to ensure both the central structure of the PN and the outer ring are covered.

**Tc1 NIRSpec IFU:**
*   A 3x1 mosaic (similar to the shortest wavelengths of the MIRI MRS mosaic) with corresponding background and leakcal observations.
*   Standard 4-point dither for spatial sampling.
*   The exposure time in the mosaic (15x1x1) is selected to achieve a S/N of roughly 10 for key [OI] and [Fe II] lines. This does not lead to saturation in the strongest lines in the nebula.
*   Special requirements: Added a small offset to ensure both the center of the PN and the outer ring are covered. We have added the same Aperture PA Range as for MIRI MRS to ensure both instruments cover the same area of the object.