---
id: 4711
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRISS/SOSS  NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Renyu Hu"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "17.01/0.0"
program_title: "Efficient and Detailed Characterization of a Temperate Water World Candidate"
type: "GO"
---
# 4711 - Efficient and Detailed Characterization of a Temperate Water World Candidate
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4711
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template                    | Science Target |
| :---- | :------------------------------------ | :------------- |
| 1     | NIRISS Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy | (1) TOI-4336   |
| 2     | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series     | (1) TOI-4336   |

---

## ABSTRACT

Temperate water worlds, if they exist, provide a new avenue to expand and accelerate the search for potentially habitable exoplanets in the next decade. This is because many more temperate planets in the 1.5 – 2.2 Earth's radius range are suitable for atmospheric studies than the sole TRAPPIST-1 system that hosts temperate and small rocky planets. Among the sub-Neptunes, however, only temperate water worlds, rather than mini Neptunes, can host liquid-water oceans. It is thus crucial to determine whether temperate sub-Neptunes are water worlds. We identify TOI-4336.01, a newly discovered 2.1 Earth's radius temperate planet, as a likely water world and the most favorable target for transmission spectroscopy among the planets with similar sizes, equilibrium temperatures <320 K, and measured masses. The planet can have a liquid-water ocean with reasonable planetary albedo. With only one transit using NIRISS/SOSS and another one using NIRSpec/G395H, the resulting spectra will be sensitive and precise enough to measure the abundances of H2O, CH4, NH3, CO2, and CO, and constrain the cloud pressure. The combination of these gases will determine whether the planet is a water world. This observation will also determine whether the planet has a liquid-water ocean if it is a temperate water world. This highly efficient and yet detailed characterization of the temperate sub-Neptune will constrain the suggested population of water worlds around M dwarfs and have the potential to expand the search space of habitable worlds from Earth-sized planets to larger planets.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will acquire the transmission spectra of the temperate sub-Neptune TOI-4336.01, using NIRISS/SOSS and NIRSpec/BOTS/G395H to cover the wavelength range of 0.85 – 5.2 microns. We choose the number of groups to keep the saturation level within 70%, to make sure that the observations would be well within the detector's linear regime and maximize the efficiency of the observations.

We propose to obtain one transit with NIRISS/SOSS to achieve a precision of 28 ppm per spectral element on average at the resolution of R=50 in 0.85 – 2.8 micron, and one transit with NIRSpec/G395H to achieve a precision of 40 ppm per spectral element on average at the resolution of R=100 in 2.8 – 5.2 micron. The expected precision is sufficient to achieve the science objectives to distinguish the water-world scenario from the mini-Neptune scenario, and to detect the signatures of a liquid-water ocean versus a runaway greenhouse state in the water-world scenario.

As is recommended for exoplanet transit observations, we include an out-of-transit portion of the light curve that lasts 1.5 times the transit duration and splits evenly before and after the transit, as well as 30 min before the transit for the telescope and instrument to settle for the precise time-series observation. The out-of-transit observation is necessary to establish a baseline from which the transit depth can be determined and using which instrumental systematics can be modeled. Additionally, since any timing constraint narrower than 1 hour is considered “tight” and incurs a 1-hour scheduling overhead penalty, we use a timing window of exactly 1 hour, centered at 30 min (scheduling flexibility) + 30 min (settling) + out-of-transit-duration/2 minutes before the predicted start of the transit.

TTVs and TDVs not detected in the literature.