---
id: 4712
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Josefin Larsson"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "18.41/0.0"
program_title: "Looking into the core of a stellar explosion - the case of SNR 0540-69.3"
type: "GO"
---
# 4712 - Looking into the core of a stellar explosion - the case of SNR 0540-69.3
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4712
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label              | Observing Template                  | Science Target            |
| :----------------- | :---------------------------------- | :------------------------ |
| (empty)            | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) MRS-SNR0540           |
| (empty)            | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) MRS-Background        |
| (empty)            | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy            | (3) NIRspec-SNR0540       |
| G140H mosaic       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy            | (4) NIRSpec-mosaic-SNR0540|

---

## ABSTRACT

JWST observations of supernova remnants (SNRs) offer a unique opportunity to uncover the physics governing stellar explosions, the ejected debris and resulting compact objects. We propose to observe a particular interesting remnant, SNR0540, which stems from a massive star that exploded in the LMC 1100 years ago. The NIRSpec and MRS IFUs will be used to obtain the first spatially resolved infrared spectroscopy of the inner region of the system. This region contains an energetic pulsar surrounded by a pulsar wind nebula (PWN), warm dust, as well as a highly asymmetric distribution of line-emitting ejecta, making it possible to address a wide range of open questions. We will determine the abundances and 3D distribution of the ejecta, the location of the dust, the spatial variations of the synchrotron continuum in the PWN, and also obtain the first mid-infrared spectrum of the pulsar. These results in turn offer key diagnostics of the progenitor, explosion mechanism, dust production and particle acceleration. The proposed observations will thus provide a uniquely detailed view of all the physics operating at the core of a SN.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Observations of SNR 0540-69.3, covering the inner ejecta and pulsar
1) MIRI MRS
2) MIRI MRS background (in non-interruptible sequence with 1)
3) NIRSpec IFU with G235M/F and G395M
4) NIRSpec IFU mosaic (2 positions) with G140H.
PA constraints have been included to cover the most interesting parts of the remnant with MRS and NIRSpec.