---
id: 4713
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Anna-Christina Eilers  Co-PIs: Frederick Davies, Jorryt Matthee, and Rohan Naidu"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "20.84/0.0"
program_title: "MASQUERADE: Mapping a Super-luminous Quasar’s Extended Radiative Emission"
type: "GO"
---
# 4713 - MASQUERADE: Mapping a Super-luminous Quasar’s Extended Radiative Emission
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4713
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                                                     | Observing Template                 | Science Target                    |
| :-------------------------------------------------------- | :--------------------------------- | :-------------------------------- |
| J0100_PA211_N1_left cyc3 v5, J0100_PA21 1 N1 right cyc3 v5 | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (2) catalog_J0100_phaseII_v1 |
| J0100_PA20_FS_S200 A1                                     | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (2) catalog_J0100_phaseII_v1 |

## ABSTRACT

The ultraviolet radiation of luminous high-redshift quasars within the Epoch of Reionization carves out large bubbles of highly ionized intergalactic gas in the quasars' environments, making the otherwise opaque Lyman-alpha (Lya) forest highly transparent at redshifts near to the systemic redshift of the quasar, which is known as the proximity effect. In this proposal we aim to leverage the unique capabilities of JWST's NIRSpec/MSA to observe an overdensity of spectroscopically confirmed, bright galaxies in the background of the super-luminous quasar J0100+2802 at a redshift of z=6.33 at close projected distances, in order to tomographically map the quasar's ionized region for the first time by means of the transverse proximity effect. These observations will uniquely reveal the geometry of the quasar's ionization cone, and constrain its opening angle and obscuration. Additionally, the extent of the ionized region, also known as the quasar's light echo, provide a model-independent constraint on the quasar's age based on the light travel time, which will enable new insights on the puzzle of the early growth of supermassive black holes. Simultaneously, the quasar's highly ionized region provides a unique laboratory to study the intrinsic ionizing properties of high-redshift galaxies without absorption by the IGM. By measuring the unattenuated line profiles of the Lya emission combined with a first census of high-ionization UV emission lines for ~35 galaxies at 5.7<z<7, our proposed observations will also reveal the elusive protagonists that reionize the universe.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We target bright (m_AB<27 mag in F115W) galaxies in a field around the most luminous, high-redshift quasar, J0100+2802 at z=6.327, using NIRSpec/MSA. The targeted galaxies are spectroscopically confirmed by previous NIRCam/WFSS observations and are at redshifts 5.7<z<7.

In order to obtain a spatially well distributed sample of galaxies required for our science goals we need two NIRSpec/MSA configurations. Using the APT's MSA Planning Tool we first assign weights to all 117 spectroscopically confirmed galaxies at 5.7<z<7.0 in the field (1st priority to bright background sources, 2nd priority to bright galaxies within the proximity zone) and determine the best PA for our observations. In total we can observe 31-35 galaxies.

We choose the medium resolution grating + filter G140M/F070LP, which provides continuous wavelengths coverage between 0.70–1.27 m with a resolution of R~1000. For Lyman-alpha at the quasars' redshifts at approximately 0.9 m, the resolution is slightly lower, i.e. R~700, corresponding to a pixel scale of v~420 km/s. This resolution will enable us to resolve flux transmission within the Lyman-alpha forest of background galaxies with approximately 2-16 spectral pixels (depending on the pathlengths with high flux transmission), as well as de-blend the low EW of the UV emission lines and Lya emission of high-redshift galaxies.

Using the ETC we estimate that we need approximately 7.4 hours on source to obtain SNR~2 per resolution element for a galaxy of m_AB~26.5 mag, which corresponds to the 20% brightest galaxies in our sample. This will enable us to obtain a >3 sigma detection of the transverse proximity effect in four independent radial and azimuthal bins, allowing constraints on the extent and geometry of the quasar's ionzied region.

We chose 100 groups per integration, and adapt the recommended dither pattern with 3 nods in the shutter slitlets. These observations are duplicated six times, in order to achieve the required exposure time per MSA configuration.

We will use the readout mode NRSIRS2RAPID for its improved noise performance.

We will obtain target confirmation images, with 5 groups per integration, which will result in >3 sigma detections even for the faintest sources on slits (m_AB~28 mag).