---
id: 4727
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Andrea Banzatti  Co-PIs: Christian Rab and Benjamin Tofflemire"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "23.4/0.0"
program_title: "Snowline pulsations and UV photo-chemistry in planet-forming regions"
type: "GO"
---
# 4727 - Snowline pulsations and UV photo-chemistry in planet-forming regions
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4727
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
## 1. Labels, Observing Templates, and Science Targets

| Folder Observation | Label   | Observing Template                 | Science Target |
|--------------------|---------|------------------------------------|----------------|
| 1                  | DQ Tau  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) V-DQ-Tau   |
| 2                  | DQ Tau  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) V-DQ-Tau   |
| 3                  | DQ Tau  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) V-DQ-Tau   |
| 4                  | DQ Tau  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) V-DQ-Tau   |
| 5                  | DQ Tau  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) V-DQ-Tau   |
| 6                  | DQ Tau  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) V-DQ-Tau   |
| 7                  | DQ Tau  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) V-DQ-Tau   |
| 8                  | DQ Tau  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) V-DQ-Tau   |
| 9                  | DQ Tau  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) V-DQ-Tau   |
| 12                 | DQ Tau  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) V-DQ-Tau   |

---

## ABSTRACT

The chemical composition of protoplanetary disks determines the core and atmospheric composition of forming planets. While disk chemical models, for simplicity, typically assume steady-state conditions, the irradiation of the inner planet-forming zone in disks can vary dramatically during the unstable accretion phases that are typical of T Tauri stars at ~1-3 Myr. Stellar accretion variability leads to UV flares that change the heating, excitation, and photo-dissociation conditions in the inner disk. As inner disk chemistry studies are ramping up with JWST-MIRI observations from cycle 1, molecular spectra show broad trends and large scatters that expand those previously seen with Spitzer-IRS and still challenge current static models. This program will take the rare opportunity of a real-time experiment to clarify the role of accretion flares in altering the chemistry of planet-forming regions. A system with periodic flares of up to 10 times the accretion luminosity will be monitored with MIRI-MRS to measure cold water "bursts" from ice sublimation when the snowline recedes during the flare, and UV-driven dissociation and re-formation of C, N, O, H chemistry. The results from this experiment will provide groundbreaking insights on the ice mass reservoir at the snowline and on the formation and survival of water and organic molecules in planet-forming regions. This program will inaugurate studies of time-dependent inner disk chemistry, support fundamental developments in disk and planet formation models, and help clarify the interpretation of broad chemical trends and scatters observed in large disk samples observed with JWST.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This is a MIRI MRS program to observe molecular spectra at 4.9-28 micron tracing the chemistry of the inner warm regions in the Class II protoplanetary disk of DQ Tau. The system will be monitored over 9 epochs during the periodic accretion flares occurring in the system at known dates (3 epochs for 3 flares). The requested sensitivity has been optimized to detect changes in molecular chemistry during and after the accretion flares, in terms of temperature, gas mass, and excitation of multiple molecules, to monitor their processes in inner disks (dissociation, re-formation, sublimation, condensation). Integration times are set to reach a S/N ~400 at ~12-18 um, as demonstrated feasible with MIRI disk spectra observed in cycle 1. The dates of DQ Tau flares in the observable window in 2024 are: Sep 11th, 26th, Oct 12th. We request a group of 3 linked observations around each of these flares.