---
id: 4735
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging  NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Nathan Sandford"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "23.11/8.92"
program_title: "A Closer Look at the Formation and Evolution of M31's Inner Disk"
type: "GO"
---
# 4735 - A Closer Look at the Formation and Evolution of M31's Inner Disk
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4735
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
**1. List of Labels, Observing Templates, and Science Targets:**

| Folder        | Observation | Label                                   | Observing Template                  | Science Target                  |
| :------------ | :---------- | :-------------------------------------- | :---------------------------------- | :------------------------------ |
| M31-Field1    | 1           | Field1-PA18.5590-Phasell-v3             | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy    | (12) M31-Phase2-MSA-Catalog-1   |
| M31-Field1    | 3           | Field1-Pre-Imaging                      | NIRCam Imaging                      | (2) M31-MSA-Catalog-1           |
| M31-Field2    | 2           | Field2-PA20.5132-Phasell-v3             | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy    | (13) M31-Phase2-MSA-Catalog-2   |
| M31-Field2    | 4           | Field2-Pre-Imaging                      | NIRCam Imaging                      | (3) M31-MSA-Catalog-2           |
| NGC 6171      | 5           | NGC6171-PA239.6722-Phasell-v4           | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy    | (15) NGC6171-Phase2-MSA-Catalog-v2 |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose to use JWST/NIRSpec's unique capabilities to measure detailed chemical abundance patterns for hundreds of resolved red giant branch (RGB) stars in the inner regions (R < 14 kpc) of M31's disk. We will target 2 fields at R ~ 3 and 8 kpc, where the chemistry of stars encode information of both M31's in situ star formation and accretion history. Combined with an archival field at ~18 kpc, these observations will provide a combined sample of >300 M31 RGB stars for which [Fe/H], [alpha/Fe], and 8 other individual elements will be measured (Si, C, Mg, O, N, Ni, Mn, and Ti) to <0.1 dex precision. These elements trace a variety of enrichment mechanisms, timescales, and nucleosynthetic pathways enabling science which, to date, has only been possible in the Milky Way. We will use these detailed abundance patterns to pursue a broad array of science including confirming the presence (or absence) of M31's [alpha/Fe]-bimodality, mapping radial abundance trends, and measuring the efficiency of radial orbit migration and disk heating in M31. We will use parallel NIRCam imaging to construct the deepest color-magnitude diagrams to date in M31's inner disk, from which we will measure the age-metallicity relationship back to 4-5 Gyr ago and search for evidence of an intense burst of star formation 2-4 Gyr ago. This program will fundamentally transform our understanding of M31 and other Lstar galaxies while further establishing NIRSpec as a premier facility for extragalactic stellar spectroscopy.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

In this program, we will obtain NIRSpec MOS of ~200 red giant branch (RGB) stars across two fields in M31's inner disk. The two targeted fields, located at radii of ~3 and 8 kpc, were chosen to 1) fall within the PHAT multi-band imaging survey's footprint, 2) compliment existing NIRSpec observations at R ~ 18 kpc, 3) avoid regions of high extinction or star formation, and 4) include a bright foreground star for wide aperture target acquisition (WATA) should it be necessary. In each field, we fill our masks preferentially with the brightest stars on the upper RGB (20.5 < F814W < 22), which will have the highest S/N and most precise abundance. Imposing tight (<55 mas) slit-centering constraints, we are able to target ~100 RGB stars in each field. The remainder of the mask is filled with ~60 "blank sky" shutters where we know no stars with F814W < 23 exist in order to sample the background and unresolved disk of M31.

MSA target acquisition (MSATA) is preferred as it provides the best pointing accuracy and minimizes slit losses. However, if the M31 disk fields prove too crowded for MSATA, we have ensured a bright (14 < F814W <15) foreground star with Gaia photometry is available for WATA. In either case, we request confirmation imaging to quantify slit losses and improve the fidelity of RV measurements. Because the PHAT survey was conducted ~10 years ago, we require NIRCam pre-imaging for reliable astrometry for targetting and acquisition. This is especially important if WATA must be used for acquition. Pre-imaging will be taken in the F150W and F277W filters, utilising the FULLBOX 8NIRSPEC dither pattern and the BRIGHT1 readout pattern with 2 integration per dither and 5 groups per integration.

NIRSpec observations will be taken with the G140H/F100LP disperser-filter pair, providing 0.97-1.82 micron spectral coverage at R ~ 4000. At this modest resolution, measuring precise elemental abundances (<0.1 dex) can be done with spectra of S/N > 30 per pixel at 1.4 micron, which can be achieved for our faintest primary stars in ~5 hours of integration. We will obtain 6 exposures split across a 3-point nod in both the dispersion and cross-dispersion directions (to mitigate detector effects and cosmic rays) and a sub-pixel dither in the dispersion direction (to improve spectral sampling). Each exposure will consist of 3 integrations of 14 groups, using the NRSIRS2 readout pattern. The median S/N of our primary sample will be ~60 per pixel at 1.4 micron.

We will also take NIRSpec observations in the MW globular cluster NGC 6171 ([Fe/H] = -1.0) using identical spectroscopic configuration, nod/dither patterns, and confirmation imaging strategy to validate and, if necessary, calibrate our measurement in M31. For these observations, we adopt a single MSA configuration and take 6 exposures, each with 1 integration of 4 groups. We will observe ~30 stars brighter than F814W < 18 for validation of our chemical abundance measurements against previous high-resolution spectroscopic studies and ~70 fainter stars 22 < F814W < 21 (which won't saturate confirmation imaging) for quantifying the systematic velocity uncertainties associated with our observing strategy. We will achieve S/N > 100 (5) per pixel at 1.4 micron for the bright (faint) sample. Targets will be selected from recent archival HST/ACS imaging.

NIRCam parallels will be acquired for the M31 observation in adjacent low-extinction regions of the disk to construct a robust SFH of M31's inner disk. To reach the 4 (5) Gyr MSTO in Field 1 (2), we obtain 6 sets of 3-point dithers split 2:1 between the F090W and F150W SW filters. Each exposure consist of 4 integrations and 4 groups/integration using the SHALLOW4 readout pattern. In the LW channel, we will obtain exposures split evenly between the F356W and F444W filters, which will be crowding limited at m=24. Orientation constraints ensure that all NIRSpec and NIRCam fields overlap with low-extinction regions of the PHAT survey footprint.