---
id: 4744
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Brenda Frye  Co-PIs: Justin Pierel"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "3.46/0.0"
program_title: "SN H0pe: Doubling the Time Delay Precision of a z=1.78 Multiply-imaged Type Ia Supernova"
type: "GO"
---
# 4744 - SN H0pe: Doubling the Time Delay Precision of a z=1.78 Multiply-imaged Type Ia Supernova
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4744
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label               | Observing Template | Science Target           |
| :------------------ | :----------------- | :----------------------- |
| PLCK G165.7+67.0    | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) PLCK-G165            |
| SNH0pe-Repeat       | NIRCam Imaging     | (2) SNH0pe-Repeat-TARGET |

## ABSTRACT

The most distant (z=1.78) lensed supernova (SN) Ia was discovered near peak brightness in JWST/NIRCam imaging in the PLCK G165.7+67.0 (G165) galaxy cluster, named "H0pe." SN Hope is triply-imaged and provides the first opportunity to measure the Hubble constant (H0) using time delays from a multiply-imaged SN Ia. This H0 constraint is independent of the field SN Ia and CMB approaches, which are currently in ~5sigma tension. However, the lack of imaging without the supernova present makes disentangling the SN light from its bright host galaxy a challenge, particularly at wavelengths >2 micron where most of the leverage for time delays resides. The initial time delay measurements for SN H0pe are limited by photometric uncertainties in the F200W and F277W filters, and the absence of measurements in F356W & F444W, which cannot be extracted without template imaging.

1) Simulations demonstrate that obtaining a reference epoch after SN Hope has faded introduces 18 new photometric points from the previously missing long wavelength filters, and improves the overall time delay uncertainties using all six filters by a factor of 2.
2) The reduced uncertainty in the time delay taken together with a conservative lens model uncertainty of 10% translates to ~20% reduction in the uncertainty on H0 by this method.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose 1 epoch to obtain a template image of the highest-redshift lensed Type Ia supernova, "SN H0pe." We will use 3 filter pairs of NIRCam imaging to acquire an image of the G165 cluster field. This will be the first image without the SN H0pe, and is required in order to do accurate difference imaging, photometry, and to obtain accurate time delays between the SN images. We will then measure H0 through the measurement of time delays.