---
id: 4748
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: David Sand"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "26.13/0.0"
program_title: "The Ancient Star Formation History of the Isolated, Quenched Ultra-faint Dwarf Galaxy Tucana B"
type: "GO"
---
# 4748 - The Ancient Star Formation History of the Isolated, Quenched Ultra-faint Dwarf Galaxy Tucana B
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4748
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :---- | :----------------- | :------------- |
| TucB  | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) TUCANAB    |

## ABSTRACT

We request F090W+F150W NIRCam imaging of Tucana B, a newly discovered, isolated ultra-faint dwarf galaxy beyond the edge of the Local Group (M_V=-6.9; D=1.4 Mpc). Tucana B is a unique ultra-faint, as it has likely never had an encounter with the Milky Way's hot halo or tidal field, yet its ground-based observations only display an old (~13 Gyr), metal poor ([Fe/H]=-2) stellar population, and it lacks any HI gas with which to make new stars – it is quenched. Reionization is expected to quench many of the smallest galaxies at early times, heating their gas reservoirs and stopping any subsequent star formation. Observations of Tucana B down to the oldest main sequence turnoff will be a definitive test of the role that reionization plays, identifying whether early star formation stopped around the reionization epoch, or continued up until more recent times, as is seen in more massive field dwarfs. Only JWST can perform these observations well outside the Milky Way's virial radius, where ultra-faint dwarf galaxies are unaffected by ram pressure and tidal forces. Tucana B is currently the only target that can test this prediction of modern galaxy formation theory.
We have designed our observations with potential, future proper motion measurements in mind, which could further elucidate the origins and history of Tucana B with respect to the Local Group.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will image Tucana B with NIRCam with the short-wavelength filters F090W and F150W for our primary science goals, while simultaneously obtaining F277W data. Tucana B has a small size on the sky and fits in one NIRCam detector. We will position it on one of the module B detectors using a postarg-offset. We will use both NIRCam modules to fully characterize Tucana B and the background.
We will image down to F090W=29.8, F150W=29.0 with a S/N=5, assuming a G5V star spectrum, similar to that expected for main sequence turnoff stars. We have used a MEDIUM8 readout and subpixel dither pattern. We will not cover the detector gaps, and prefer the uniform depth for our science goals. All exposure times have been calculated using the JWST ETC.
We are happy to work with STScI staff if this or any other aspects of our program can be made more efficient.