---
id: 4750
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 6
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Kimihiko Nakajima"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "62.92/0.0"
program_title: "Unveiling the Primordial Universe: A <1000 Msun Stellar Cluster at z=6.6"
type: "GO"
---
# 4750 - Unveiling the Primordial Universe: A <1000 Msun Stellar Cluster at z=6.6
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4750
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                          | Observing Template               | Science Target                 |
| :----------------------------- | :------------------------------- | :----------------------------- |
| G140M+G395M: ReplanA PA103 v8 | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (2) macs0416_go4750_main_v6    |
| G140M+G395M: ReplanB PA103 v8 | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (2) macs0416_go4750_main_v6    |
| G140M+G395M: ReplanC PA103 v8 | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (3) macs0416_go4750_main_v6c   |

---

## ABSTRACT

The formation of primordial stars and galaxies in the early universe has been a challenge for observational astronomers until recent advancements with JWST. Notably, Vanzella et al. (2023) used NIRSpec-IFU observations to study a highly magnified (>~100x) Lyman-alpha emitting arc at z=6.6, hinting at the presence of a low-mass (Mstar <1000 Msun), low-metallicity stellar cluster within the arc. This suggests it might host Population III stars formed from pristine gas. This program proposes extensive NIRSpec spectroscopy of the stellar cluster. The main goal is to confirm the existence of primordial gas at z=6.6 and ongoing Population III star formation. To achieve this, deep observations requiring 24 hours of on-source integration will be conducted. These observations aim to identify the HeII 1640 emission line, which will serve as a critical test of the Population III star formation scenario. The objectives also include establishing a more stringent upper limit on gas-phase metallicity by examining the deep spectrum around [OIII] 5007, providing stronger support for the primordial nature within the star forming regions of the stellar cluster. Furthermore, we will combine the entire suite of NIRCam images from GTO observations to obtain a stricter limit on the stellar mass of the stellar cluster, potentially down to 500 Msun. With these updated observational findings, this program will contribute to our understanding of the characteristics of Population III stellar clusters and the persistence of pristine gas conditions in the universe.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This program conducts deep spectroscopy within a single pointing in the MACS J0416 lensing cluster field.

**NIRSpec MSA MOS Spectroscopy:**
The NIRSpec MSA MOS observations will be performed using the G140M/F070LP and G395M/F290LP gratings/filters, each requiring approximately 24 hours of on-source integration to achieve our desired depth.
A single MSA mask will be employed to simultaneously observe the two primary targets, B1 and B2, positioned close to each other, on the same MSA slitlet. This required a specific aperture position angle of 123-132.5 degrees, with an ideal APA of 126 degrees. This will ensure the other component, A1,2, falling on the slitlet. Within the same MSA mask, blank sky slitlets will be prepared to generate a master background spectrum. The background subtraction strategy, utilizing the master background spectrum for the primary targets, mitigates the issue of mutual subtraction and ensure a reliable background subtraction. Additionally, any remaining shutter positions will be utilized to observe other high-redshift lensed at MACS J0416.
Our observation strategy will employ a 3-shutter slitlet nod pattern, enhancing spectral sampling and the accuracy of flux measurements. To minimize the impact of 1/f noise in the master background, we will adopt the IRS2 readout mode.
No pre-imaging is required, as we will use the JWST NIRCam images that are taken by the GTO teams and will be publicly available.