---
id: 4757
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Pieter van Dokkum"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "14.79/0.0"
program_title: "Using water to test for variation in the stellar initial mass function"
type: "GO"
---
# 4757 - Using water to test for variation in the stellar initial mass function
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4757
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label             | Observing Template          | Science Target      |
| :---------------- | :-------------------------- | :------------------ |
| NGC1407 IFU       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (1) NGC1407         |
| NGC1277 IFU       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (2) NGC1277         |
| NGC1600 IFU       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (3) NGC1600         |
| NGC2695 IFU       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (4) NGC2695         |
| ESO325-G004 IFU   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (5) ESO325-G004     |
| B163-G217 IFU     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (6) B163-G217       |
| B193-G244 IFU     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (7) B193-G244       |

---

## ABSTRACT

Despite many years of effort, the question whether the form of the stellar initial mass function (IMF) is universal or varies in different environments is still not settled. Of particular current relevance is the IMF in the central regions of the most massive galaxies: several lines of evidence suggest that it is bottom-heavy, with an excess of low mass stars, and this would have direct implications for the stellar masses that are assigned to JWST-discovered galaxies at the highest redshifts. The strongest and clearest spectral signature of low mass stars in the integrated light of old stellar populations is H2O absorption, with a sharp onset at 1.33 micron. So far H2O has not been used in IMF studies, as the strong absorption in our own atmosphere makes it impossible to observe this feature from the ground. Here we propose to measure the 1.33 micron H2O feature with the NIRSpec IFU to test whether the IMF varies with environment. The sample of seven objects includes several galaxies with a claimed extremely bottom-heavy IMF as well as two metal-rich and old M31 globular clusters as a control to verify the method. A secondary goal is to measure the spatial variation of the 1.33 micron feature on 0.1" scales, and to determine whether radial gradients seen with other IMF indicators on much larger scales continue all the way into the center.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The program has 7 targets, 5 early-type galaxies and 2 M31 globular clusters. All observations are done with the NIRSpec IFU. The early-type galaxies will be observed with the G140M/F100LP grating as well as short exposures with the Prism. The globular clusters will only be observed with the G140M grating. The S/N ratio will be high (~100 per r=0.1 aperture), and no background subtraction should be needed. There is some concern that leakage from open shutters impacts the observations, as the flux is fairly high even away from the centers of the galaxies. Short LEAKCAL exposures are therefore included in the G140M observations - mostly to identify spaxels that are badly affected so they can be masked. No acquisition is needed as the pointing error can be tolerated. We can reconstruct the exact pointing by comparing the flux distribution in the IFU field to existing HST images. A 4-point dither pattern improves the sampling and mitigates the effects of bad pixels and other defects. The S/N ratios in the workbook are calculated for the brightest pixel as saturation is a concern for some of the galaxies.