---
id: 4761
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Andreas Faisst"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "47.65/0.0"
program_title: "A Deep Look into PAHs: Resolved PAH and Fine-Structure Emission in z=1 Main-Sequence Galaxies"
type: "GO"
---
# 4761 - A Deep Look into PAHs: Resolved PAH and Fine-Structure Emission in z=1 Main-Sequence Galaxies
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4761
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label          | Observing Template                | Science Target          |
| :------------- | :-------------------------------- | :---------------------- |
| 1018 Science   | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) COSMOS 1018         |
| 1018 BG        | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) COSMOS 1018 BG      |
| 996 Science    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) COSMOS 996          |
| 996 BG         | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (10) COSMOS 996 BG      |
| 1148 Science   | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) COSMOS 1148         |
| 1148 BG        | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (11) COSMOS 1148 BG     |
| 1025 Science   | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (5) COSMOS 1025         |
| 1025 BG        | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (12) COSMOS 1025 BG     |
| 1757 Science   | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (6) COSMOS 1757         |
| 1757 BG        | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (13) COSMOS 1757 BG     |
| 844 Science    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (7) COSMOS 844          |
| 844 BG         | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (14) COSMOS 844 BG      |
| 1295 Science   | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (8) COSMOS 1295         |
| 1295 BG        | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (15) COSMOS 1295 BG     |
| 1346 Science   | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (9) COSMOS 1346         |
| 1346 BG        | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (16) COSMOS 1346 BG     |

---

## ABSTRACT

Dust is an essential part of galaxy evolution. Dust properties are altered by the radiation field of stars and AGN, shocks, and winds. Thus the study of dust provides important clues on physical processes at work in galaxies. Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), aliphatic variations, and fine-structure lines at 3-20um are the most prominent and sensitive probes of neutral and ionized dust and the ionization field in galaxies. These features have been probed on unresolved scales with Spitzer and only recently with MIRI/MRS on resolved scales in local galaxies.

Here we exploit the capabilities of MIRI/MRS at full and propose the highest redshift observations of resolved PAHs (3.3, 6.2, 7.7, 11.3um) and Ar/Ne fine-structure lines in 8 carefully selected typical main-sequence galaxies at z=1. With this unique sample (which already has JWST/NIRCam and some MIRI imaging) we will
(i) pursue the first comprehensive modeling of the resolved dust grain distribution in the nucleus, disk, and diffuse ISM in z=1 disk galaxies and mergers;
(ii) study the correlation between grain properties and stellar ionization field via cross-correlation to NIRCam imaging and assess the use of PAH 3.3um as SFR indicator; and
(iii) characterize the fraction of dust-obscured AGN in typical z=1 main-sequence galaxies from a joint modeling of mid-IR continuum and PAH band ratios.

These unique observations enable for the first time the detailed understanding of resolved dust production and destruction mechanisms in the highly star forming environments of typical z=1 galaxies. It will also be a valuable comparison sample to local galaxies and studies of bright sub-mm galaxies at higher redshifts.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This program uses MIRI/MRS (all 3 sub-channels) to perform resolved observations of the broad PAH bands (3.3, 6.2, 7.7, 11.3um), the aliphatic feature at 3.4um, as well as a series of fine-structure lines ([Ar II], [Ar III], [Ne II], [Ne VI]) for 8 star-forming main-sequence galaxies at z=1. The galaxies are chosen to have spectroscopic redshifts at 0.92 < z < 0.98 to ensure the optimal placement of the above spectral features. Furthermore, the galaxies are extended and close to face-on for an optimal resolved structural study at the MIRI/MRS resolution. The galaxies are drawn from the COSMOS field and have existing JWST/NIRCam (F115W, F150W, F277W, F444W) and MIRI (F770W) observations from the COSMOS-Web JWST cycle 1 program as well as a wealth of other ancillary data. In addition, we will obtain, for free, MIRI imaging in F1000W, F1280W, and F1800W for our targets as part of the dedicated background observations. These are crucial for modeling the continuum part of the spectrum.

The exposure times are set by the faintest PAH at 3.3um (in MRS Ch. 1 MEDIUM), to achieve a line peak S/N of 3. This results in a peak S/N>3 for the 6.2 and 7.7um PAH and a peak S/N>2 for the 11.3 PAH. Other fine-structure lines will be measure at peak S/N>5. An extensive simulation with the online JWST ETC and realistic source structures is performed to show that this setup is optimal to obtain spatially resolved spectra in the core, spiral structure, and diffuse interstellar medium of the target galaxies. This results in exposure times between 2000s and 5000s (depending on the brightness of the target) in one MIRI/MRS sub-channel (i.e., multiplied by 3 for total time). For all three MRS sub-channels, we use the SLOWR1 readout to reduce the data volume and optimize the S/N. In all cases, we maximize n_group and set n_int=1 as recommended. A 4-point dither optimized for extended sources is used for the science observations.

We use dedicated sky background observations with the same setup. However, to reduce the overall time request, we only use a 2-point dither for the sky background observations. In addition, we add F1000W, F1280W, and F1800W observations (one for each sub-channel) for our targets, taken simultaneously with the background observations. To observe a clean background, we implement special requirements on the V3 PA of the background observations. To avoid the meteoroid zone, we use V3 PAs around 110 degrees (we therefore avoid the 290-degree option). In two cases, we also introduce an offset, as the V3 PA range would put the background observations too close to a bright low-redshift galaxy or a star.