---
id: 4783
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Alessandro Savino"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "24.3/0.0"
program_title: "Anchoring the JWST population II distance ladder to Gaia"
type: "GO"
---
# 4783 - Anchoring the JWST population II distance ladder to Gaia
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4783
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :---- | :----------------- | :------------- |
|       | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) NGC-147    |
|       | NIRCam Imaging     | (2) NGC-185    |
|       | NIRCam Imaging     | (3) NGC-205    |
|       | NIRCam Imaging     | (4) AQUARIUS-DIRR |
|       | NIRCam Imaging     | (5) PEGASUS-DIRR |
|       | NIRCam Imaging     | (6) LEO-A      |
|       | NIRCam Imaging     | (7) CETUS-DSPH |
|       | NIRCam Imaging     | (8) IC-1613    |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose to obtain multi-band imaging of 8 nearby galaxies that have deep HST photometry and secure distances tied to the Gaia geometric standard in order to establish a Gaia-based anchor for the JWST population II distance ladder. Extragalactic distances play a pivotal role in many branches of modern astrophysics, from galaxy property determinations to measuring cosmic expansion. JWST will massively increase the detection range of Pop II distance indicators, such as the tip of the red-giant branch (TRGB) and the horizontal branch (HB). This program will critically anchor the JWST Pop II distance scale to the Gaia standard, while avoiding challenges posed by saturation. The data acquired by this program will also enable a range of complementary science from improving Pop II stellar age estimates to measuring precise stellar parameters when coupled with panchromatic HST imaging.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This program will obtain NIRCam photometry of 8 nearby galaxies with deep ancillary HST photometry and secure distances tied to Gaia, with the goal of calibrating the population II distance ladder in a range of commonly used NIRCam passbands.

Each visit will obtain photometry in the (F090W, F444W), (F115W, F356W) and (F150W, F277W) passbands. We will acquire 4 dithered (subpixel) exposures per filter, using the SHALLOW4/MEDIUM8 read-out patterns, between 3 and 9 groups per integration, and 1 or 2 integrations per exposure. This set-up has been tuned for each filter and target, to reach the depth of the blue horizontal branch, while avoiding saturation of the tip of the red-giant branch. The total exposure time of the program is 11.99h and the total requested time is 24.3h.

The special requirement OFFSET has been set to center one of the two NIRCam modules on top of existing HST data. For 5 of our 8 targets, we have imposed a PA range constraint, to place the second NIRCam module on high surface-brightness regions of the target. The PA range has been left large enough to include all the schedulability windows that fall outside the micrometeoroid avoidance zone (MAZ). The total schedulability window of our observations ranges from 7 to 11 weeks for the PA-constrained targets (0% MAZ overlap) and from 16 to 27 weeks for the remaining targets (46% to 68% overlap with the MAZ).