---
id: 4818
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/LRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Megan Mansfield"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "57.08/0.0"
program_title: "A survey to search for silicate vapor atmospheres in the ultra-hot terrestrial planet population"
type: "GO"
---
# 4818 - A survey to search for silicate vapor atmospheres in the ultra-hot terrestrial planet population
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4818
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                  | Observing Template              | Science Target      |
|------------------------|---------------------------------|---------------------|
| GJ 9827                | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) GJ-9827         |
| GJ 9827 Background     | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (11) GJ-9827 BKG    |
| HD 20329               | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) HD-20329        |
| HD 20329 Background    | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (12) HD-20329 BKG   |
| TOI-1416               | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) TOI-1416        |
| TOI-1416 Background    | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (13) TOI-1416 BKG   |
| TOI-500                | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) TOI-500         |
| TOI-500 Background     | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (14) TOI-500 BKG    |
| TOI-1442               | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (5) TOI-1442        |
| TOI-1442 Background    | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (15) TOI-1442 BKG   |
| TOI-561                | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (6) TOI-561         |
| TOI-561 Background     | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (16) TOI-561 BKG    |
| TOI-1075               | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (7) TOI-1075        |
| TOI-1075 Background    | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (17) TOI-1075 BKG   |
| TOI-1807               | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (8) TOI-1807        |
| TOI-1807 Background    | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (18) TOI-1807 BKG   |
| HD 3167                | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (9) HD-3167         |
| HD 3167 Background     | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (19) HD-3167 BKG    |
| TOI-431                | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (10) TOI-431        |
| TOI-431 Background     | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (20) TOI-431 BKG    |

---

## ABSTRACT
Theory predicts that terrestrial planets with irradiation temperatures above 1,700 K may be hot enough for silicate vapor atmospheres to form from evaporation of their solid surfaces. However, the exact temperature at which silicate vapor atmospheres appear is unknown because of several uncertainties in modeling the formation of these atmospheres. For example, the rate of cloud formation in silicate atmospheres is unknown, and the magnitude of the silicate greenhouse effect is relatively unconstrained. Additionally, the amount of heat a silicate vapor atmosphere could transport to a planet's nightside is largely unknown. Models of silicate vapor atmospheres require observations to benchmark against in order to move past these large uncertainties.
We propose a survey of secondary eclipses of 10 terrestrial planets with irradiation temperatures T>1500 K to further our understanding of the formation and properties of silicate vapor atmospheres. Our survey will allow us to unambiguously identify the presence or absence of a silicate vapor atmosphere using just a single eclipse for each planet, constraining the turn-on temperature for the existence of silicate atmospheres. For those planets with atmospheres, we will be able to compare their temperature to the maximum expected temperature and constrain the amount of heat redistribution occurring. For those planets without atmospheres, we will use measurements of the inferred albedo to investigate to what extent their surfaces are impacted by space weathering. These targets sample a range of irradiation temperatures that is poorly covered by prior Spitzer and planned JWST observations.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION
We will observe secondary eclipses of 10 short-period rocky planets with MIRI/LRS. Each visit is designed to capture the full secondary eclipse, 2 hours of out-of-eclipse baseline (an approximate 1:2 ratio with the 1-hour eclipses, so as to have enough baseline to correct for systematic trends), and 0.5 hours of settling time (as was found to be best practice from Cycle 1 observations).
We used PandExo to determine the optimal observing strategy for each target. All observations use the SLITLESSPRISM mode and the FASTR1 readout pattern, with the number of groups/integration scaled to give the greatest observing efficiency while staying below 85% saturation. All observations use the F1500W filter for target acquisition and 4 groups/integration for a single acquisition integration. This strategy results in well over the target acquisition SNR limit of 20.
Each eclipse observation is followed by a background observation, as recommended by Cycle 1 time-series observations with MIRI/LRS. The background observation is a sequence of 10 integrations with the same number of groups/integration as the primary science observations, and with an offset of 16" from the science observation.