---
id: 4829
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Anthony Boccaletti"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "19.12/0.0"
program_title: "A spectroscopic exploration of a directly imaged multiplanet system in the mid infrared"
type: "GO"
---
# 4829 - A spectroscopic exploration of a directly imaged multiplanet system in the mid infrared
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4829
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label             | Observing Template               | Science Target |
| :---------------- | :------------------------------- | :------------- |
| MRS on target     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) HD-218396  |
| MRS on reference  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) HD-218261  |
| MRS on target     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) HD-218396  |
| MRS on reference  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) HD-218261  |
| MRS on target     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) HD-218396  |
| MRS on reference  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) HD-218261  |

---

## ABSTRACT

As the first directly imaged multiplanet system, HR8799 is a prime target for spectral characterization of exoplanet atmospheres. We aim to obtain spatially resolved spectroscopy at high contrast of the HR8799 system with MIRI-MRS to characterize with the very same observing mode, both the planets' atmospheres as well as the inner disk, by providing totally unique information unattainable with other JWST instruments, nor from the ground. MIRI-MRS will detect H2O, CO allowing us to carry out a comprehensive C/O analysis of the four planets at once. It can also possibly detect NH3 which would be unprecedented, and clarify the debate on CH4. Last but not least, MIRI-MRS can identify Silicates clouds for the first time in the atmosphere of young imaged planets.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The observations are obtained with MIRI-MRS on the target, HR8799, using sequentially the 3 grating positions to cover the full spectral range. Exposure times are determine to achieve the detection of the exoplanets in the system as well as the inner disk. The number of groups and integrations are different for the SHORT sub-band and the MEDIUM and LONG sub-bands
A reference star is chosen to subtract the diffraction further. It is observed in the very same mode at HR8799 and should be executed back-to-back. Linking the two observations is actually not a strong requirement, the most important being to obtain the target and reference star observations in the same setup (dithering in particular)
We will be reducing the data with various post processing techniques like molecular mapping (cross correlation of MRS spaxels with atmosphere models) and reference star differential imaging.