---
id: 4857
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Fergal Mullally  Co-PIs: Loic Albert and Susan Mullally"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "6.33/0.0"
program_title: "Confirmation of Planetary Companions to White Dwarf Stars"
type: "GO"
---
# 4857 - Confirmation of Planetary Companions to White Dwarf Stars
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4857
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label      | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :--------- | :----------------- | :------------- |
| WD2105-82  | MIRI Imaging       | (1) LP-852-7   |
| WD1202     | MIRI Imaging       | (2) LAWD-83    |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose single-band MIRI F1500W imagery to confirm two high-quality candidate Jovian-mass planets detected around white dwarf stars. These observations will both confirm common proper motion and potentially measure a change in the relative position of the planet around the star due to orbital motion. JWST Cycle 1 observations of metal-rich white dwarf stars detected two point-source companions with fluxes and colors consistent with planet masses of 1-5 Jupiter masses. Due to their proximity to the white dwarf star, the odds these are background galaxies is less than 2%. However, a second epoch image is required to conclusively demonstrate their true nature.

If confirmed, these companions would be among the first true Jupiter analogs discovered around other stars, with masses, orbital separations, and ages consistent with the giant planets in our own solar system. They are bright enough to allow spectroscopic follow up to measure the chemical composition of their atmosphere, testing atmosphere models in a regime quite different to that probed by either young planets, or transit spectroscopy. If the observations demonstrate that the companions are background sources, this null result will cast doubt on the theory that planets are responsible for driving the accretion of metals known to occur in 25--50% of field white dwarf stars. Conversely, confirmation of these planets is strong evidence in favour of the theory, and argues that such white dwarf-planet systems are common in the Galaxy.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This proposal requests F1500W MIRI imaging observations of two white dwarf stars in order to detect common proper motion of a candidate planet within 2 arc seconds of each white dwarf. These candidates were found using MIRI imaging in Cycle 1. The exposure times were set to obtain a SNR of 15 in the F1500W filter using 70 groups and 2 integrations and cyclic dithering. Dithering is necessary to fully measure the PSF so that the WD can be subtracted to get good flux and centroid locations on the nearby companion source.