---
id: 4866
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging  NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Kevin Luhman"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "53.08/0.0"
program_title: "A Survey for Free-floating Brown Dwarfs and Planets Down to the Mass of Jupiter"
type: "GO"
---
# 4866 - A Survey for Free-floating Brown Dwarfs and Planets Down to the Mass of Jupiter
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4866
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                  | Observing Template                | Science Target |
| :--------------------- | :-------------------------------- | :------------- |
| NIRCam mosaic          | NIRCam Imaging                    | (1) IC348      |
| ic348a2                | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy  | (4) mpt2       |
| ic348b2                | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy  | (4) mpt2       |
| ic348c2                | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy  | (4) mpt2       |
| ic348d4                | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy  | (5) mpt3       |

## ABSTRACT

A Cycle 1 program obtained NIRCam images for a small field (6'x4') in the center of IC 348, which is a nearby star-forming cluster (300 pc, 5 Myr). Those data were used to identify candidates for new free-floating planetary-mass objects (PMOs), which were then observed spectroscopically with NIRSpec (1-5 um) to confirm their cool nature. That program discovered three new PMOs, the faintest of which may be the least massive object that has been directly imaged and spectroscopically confirmed to date (~3-4 Jupiter masses). In addition, two of the three PMOs exhibit several strong absorption features from an unidentified aliphatic hydrocarbon, the presence of which is unexplained by models of brown dwarfs and giant planets. The only atmospheres in which similar hydrocarbons have been previously detected are those of Saturn and Titan.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

NIRCam images will be obtained in a mosaic with 9 rows and 3 columns in the IC348 star-forming cluster, corresponding to a 16'x20' field. The images will be taken with the FULLBOX dither pattern, four dithers, and four filters (F162M, F182M, F360M, F444W). The readout pattern will be SHALLOW4 with 5 groups, resulting in a total exposure time of 1031 sec among the four dithers at a given position and filter. The NIRCam data will serve as pre-imaging for NIRSpec MOS observations. The APT file includes four placeholder MOS configurations for NIRSpec, each of which uses the PRISM disperser, NRSIR2RAPID readout pattern, 100 groups, and three dithers, corresponding to a total exposure time of 4420 sec. The NIRSpec observations include an implicit requirement to occur after the NIRCam imaging by 60 days or more.