---
id: 4876
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Agnes Kospal"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "15.44/0.0"
program_title: "Time-resolved protoplanetary disk physics in DQ Tau"
type: "GO"
---
# 4876 - Time-resolved protoplanetary disk physics in DQ Tau
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4876
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
### 1. List of Labels, Observing Templates, and Science Targets

| Folder Observation | Label                          | Observing Template                 | Science Target              |
| :----------------- | :----------------------------- | :--------------------------------- | :-------------------------- |
| DQ Tau epoch 1     | DQ Tau MIRI MRS                | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) DQ-Tau                  |
| DQ Tau epoch 1     | DQ Tau background MIRI MRS     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) DQ-Tau-background       |
| DQ Tau epoch 2     | DQ Tau MIRI MRS                | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) DQ-Tau                  |
| DQ Tau epoch 2     | DQ Tau background MIRI MRS     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) DQ-Tau-background       |
| DQ Tau epoch 3     | DQ Tau MIRI MRS                | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) DQ-Tau                  |
| DQ Tau epoch 3     | DQ Tau background MIRI MRS     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) DQ-Tau-background       |
| DQ Tau epoch 4     | DQ Tau MIRI MRS                | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) DQ-Tau                  |
| DQ Tau epoch 4     | DQ Tau background MIRI MRS     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) DQ-Tau-background-new   |

---

## ABSTRACT

Planet-forming disks are no longer thought of as static structures. The accretion of mass from the disk onto the forming star is highly variable on timescales of hours to days, and the changing X-ray, UV, and optical radiation may have profound effects on the physical and chemical properties of the disk material, right when planetary cores are being assembled or when the planets are accreting their primary atmospheres. Most T Tauri stars vary stochastically, therefore variations in their disks are only discovered serendipitously. The lack of a systematic study on disk variability in the infrared regime, where material forming terrestrial planets mainly emit, severely limits our understanding on how disks react to variable irradiation. DQ Tau, thanks to its periodically changing accretion rate modulated by a central close eccentric binary, provides a unique opportunity for exactly such a study. This system's X-ray, UV, and optical brightness is known to increase during (almost) every periastron due to magnetic interactions and pulsed accretion. Earlier Spitzer/IRS data shows definite changes in the continuum flux and marginal (few percent) variability in molecular emission features in the disk. Consistently with this, our simulations of changing disk temperature also predict similar changes in the spectrum. After evaluating the repeatability of JWST MIRI observations, we demonstrate that our carefully planned 4-epoch monitoring of DQ Tau coupled with detailed modeling has the potential to reveal the physical (temperature, emitting area) and chemical (abundances) changes the disk experiences as a consequence of variable accretion and high-energy irradiation.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

In this project, we will conduct a 4-epoch mid-infrared spectoscopic monitoring of DQ Tau, a pre-main sequence binary experiencing periodic accretion related brightenings. The observations are time-critical: by targeting three consecutive periastrons of the 15.8-day period binary and one out-of-periastron epoch, we plan to catch the system in various accretion states. Time constraints were made for the 2025 visibility window instead of the 2024 visibility window to avoid overlap with the micrometeoroid avoidance zone.

We will use three different grating settings to cover the whole 5-28 micron wavelength range with MIRI MRS. We will use target acquisition with the Neutral Density Filter to center our target precisely and observe a separate background, in order to obtain the best fringe correction and repeatability of the spectro-photometric calibration for our target. The recommended 4-point dither pattern optimized for point sources is used for the science target, while a 2-point dither pattern optimized for background observations is used for the sky background. The science target and background observations are linked with non-interruptible links. Our target is too bright for the SLOWR1 read-out, therefore we will use FASTR1. Simultaneous imaging is disabled to avoid exceeding the threshold for data downlink.