---
id: 4896
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Laura Mayorga"
prime_parallel_time_hours: ""
program_title: "AI-Enabled Modeling of Instrument Systematics for Exoplanet Time-Series Observations"
type: "AR"
---
# 4896 - AI-Enabled Modeling of Instrument Systematics for Exoplanet Time-Series Observations
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4896
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
## ABSTRACT

**2. Full ABSTRACT:**

Exoplanet observations require extremely precise measurements to detect atmospheric signals, particularly on terrestrial targets. At these precisions, telescope systematics such as ramps, thermal fluctuations, voltage activations of observatory heaters, etc. are present as additional noise sources in the data. However, telescopes like JWST have hundreds of instrument sensors tracking the temperatures and voltages throughout the observatory systems. This archival proposal seeks to use machine learning tools to characterize the systematics in exoplanet time series data for the most commonly used JWST Exoplanet time series modes. MIRI/LRS has the greatest number of integrations, while NIRSpec/G395H has the greatest number of individual programs. We will first use a random forest to conduct feature engineering tests and determine the basis mnenomics that drive the red noise. These will then be used to train the random forest to predict the systematics signal present in reduced white light curves. We will provide the model and a description of its implementation for the community to use. We will also incorporate new software into the appropriate reduction stage of the Eureka! pipeline. This proposal is pioneering work and expected to have a high impact on all exoplanet time series analyses by improving the precision of dozens of exoplanet programs.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The "OBSERVING DESCRIPTION" section is present as a heading on the second page, but no content follows it in the provided document.