---
id: 4901
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Coronagraphy"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Margarita Karovska"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "9.8/0.0"
program_title: "Zooming in on the Dust in the R Aqr Symbiotic System: Effects of the Powerful Outburst and Jet resulting from the Recent WD Periastron Passage"
type: "GO"
---
# 4901 - Zooming in on the Dust in the R Aqr Symbiotic System: Effects of the Powerful Outburst and Jet resulting from the Recent WD Periastron Passage
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4901
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label              | Observing Template           | Science Target                |
| :----------------- | :--------------------------- | :---------------------------- |
| F1140C Roll 1      | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging   | (4) R-Aqr-Offset-Source       |
| F1140C Roll 2      | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging   | (4) R-Aqr-Offset-Source       |
| F1140C REF         | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging   | (5) Chi-Aqr-Offset-Source     |
| F1550C REF         | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging   | (5) Chi-Aqr-Offset-Source     |
| F1550C Roll 1      | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging   | (4) R-Aqr-Offset-Source       |
| F1550C Roll 2      | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging   | (4) R-Aqr-Offset-Source       |
| F1550C_Target BG   | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging   | (3) R-AQR-BACKGROUND          |
| F1550C REF BG      | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging   | (6) CHI-AQR-BACKGROUND        |
| F1140C Target BG   | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging   | (3) R-AQR-BACKGROUND          |
| F1140C REF BG      | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging   | (6) CHI-AQR-BACKGROUND        |
| Pre-Imaging        | MIRI Imaging                 | (7) R-Aqr-Offset-Pre-Imaging  |
| Pre-Imaging REF    | MIRI Imaging                 | (8) Chi-Aqr-Offset-Pre-Imaging |

## ABSTRACT

We propose JWST/MIRI coronagraphic imaging of the complex circumbinary dust environment of R Aqr, a nearby wind accreting and jet producing symbiotic binary system (WD + Mira-type star). The unprecedented sensitivity of the MIRI coronagraph imaging will provide a unique opportunity to map directly the R Aqr circumbinary dust, including in the vicinity of the binary – as close as about 100 AU (~0.5"), and in the extended (outer jet) region, reaching up to a distance of over 3000 AU (15").

Our goal is to determine - for the first time - the spatial/spectral distribution and characteristics of the faint silicate dust emission in this extremely active interacting system, and including along the jet and in the orbital plane. Our aim is to carry out a timely high-angular resolution (0.4") study of the distribution and characteristics of the dust and especially of the effects of the new outburst and jet (observed since 2019 in X-ray, UV-optical, radio and near-IR) - resulting from the enhanced accretion during the recent WD periastron passage. These phenomena are observable in R Aqr only about twice a century, with the next periastron expected in about 40 years.

We will use the 4QPM masks to block the bright central source, in order to detect fainter emission as close as ~0.5" to the binary. We will observe an unresolved reference source to obtain a good empirical PSF. By zooming in on the close circumbinary region, where the jet/ejecta plow through (and interact with) the newly formed and pre-existing dust, we will gain unique insights into the R Aqr symbiotic system, and the precursor environments of potential progenitors of PN and of a fraction of SN Ia.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We request JWST/MIRI coronagraphic imaging of a bright symbiotic system R Aqr and its dusty environment with the 4QPM/F1140C and 4QPM/F1550C setups, in order to detect extended circumstellar emission as close as 0.5" (100 AU) up to about 17" (3400 AU) radius around the central source.

The flux density of the science target is ~800 Jy in the N band, and is concentrated in close proximity of the unresolved binary at the center of the system. The extended structures we are interested in are located from about 0.5" and as far as about 17" arcsec radius (diagonally) from the center, outside the IWA of the two masks. We require a 5 sigma sensitivity of ~15 mJy to observe these extended structures created by the interactions of a powerful jet with circumstellar dust. Based on the JWST ETC the required sensitivity can be reached with a total integration of ~11 min in both filters. This sensitivity can be achieved with the FAST readout pattern with 5 groups/int, 50 integrations/exp and a 9 point small dither pattern. With this setup, saturation will be limited to 11 pixels in the 4QPM/F1140C (and no saturation in 4QPM/F1550C).

To limit PSF subtraction artifacts we require two rolls, with PA constrained between 10 and 14 degrees, and background observations with the same configuration as one dither of the source (with repeat in the 3rd quadrant). For PSF reference we chose a star with comparable flux (~150 Jy in the N band) and color of the science target. We will observe in a single roll in both bands, with a configuration of FAST readout, 25 groups/int, 60 integrations/exp and with the same 9 point small dither pattern (will produce no saturation). The total integration, per filter, on the reference is ~1 hour, in order to obtain a comparable SNR as the science target. The reference will also require a matching background acquisition (also with repeat in the 3rd quadrant).

According to the ETC, both science target and reference saturate in target acquisition, even with the shortest integration settings and the FND filter. Conversations with the JWST help desk suggested that the modality of target acquisition will need to be changed from the APT default (acquisition on source) before execution. We have identified two Gaia DR3 red stars near (< 1 arcmin) R Aqr and the PSF reference, which we will use for target acquisition. The coronagraphic masks are then centered on R Aqr and the PSF reference by specifying an offset from the respective Gaia target acquisition stars. Note that the actual value of the offset will need to be updated once the observations are scheduled, to take into account precession, proper motion, parallax and roll angle to be calculated at the time of the observations. The R Aqr offset will also be updated according to precise measurement of the position of the Mira star in the system, using recent ALMA and VLBI SiO observations, to improve upon the Gaia DR3 astrometry.