---
id: 4903
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Andrew Newman  Co-PIs: Meng Gu"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "51.12/0.0"
program_title: "Early Quiescent Galaxies Under the Magnifying Glass"
type: "GO"
---
# 4903 - Early Quiescent Galaxies Under the Magnifying Glass
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4903
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label             | Observing Template          | Science Target      |
| :---------------- | :-------------------------- | :------------------ |
| S1522 IFU         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (3) MRGS1522        |
| S1522 Imaging     | NIRCam Imaging              | (3) MRGS1522        |
| M2129 IFU         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (9) MRGM2129-IFU    |
| M2129 Imaging     | NIRCam Imaging              | (4) MRGM2129        |
| P0918 IFU         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (2) MRGP0918        |
| P0918 Imaging     | NIRCam Imaging              | (2) MRGP0918        |
| M0150 IFU         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (1) MRGM0150        |
| M0150 Imaging     | NIRCam Imaging              | (1) MRGM0150        |

---

## ABSTRACT

Star formation had shut down in a significant fraction of massive galaxies by z ~ 2. We still lack a firm understanding of the processes that ended star formation and prevent future activity, as well as their relationship to morphological change and black hole growth. A significant advance requires detailed, spatially resolved information that can be gleaned only through IFU spectroscopy. Yet this is a challenge, even with JWST, due to these galaxies' compact sizes. We propose to overcome this limitation via deep NIRSpec IFU spectroscopy and brief NIRCam imaging of 4 gravitationally lensed and exceptionally bright quiescent galaxies at z=2.1-2.6, all seen within ~1 Gyr after quenching. We will (1) spatially resolve detailed star formation histories and multi-element stellar abundances, testing proposed quenching models by constraining when, where, and how quickly quenching proceeded; (2) resolve the stellar kinematics of recently quenched galaxies to determine how much morphological transformation into ellipticals accompanied quenching; (3) test the exciting suggestion that early quiescent galaxies, like local "relic" galaxies proposed to be their analogs, host overmassive black holes by searching for their dynamical signature; and (4) map the ubiquitous ionized gas that appears to be shock heated, along with any neutral ISM or outflows, thereby shedding light on the suppression of star formation at high redshifts. These rich and detailed insights into early quiescent galaxies' formation history, chemistry, structure, kinematics, ISM, outflows, and black holes are possible only by coupling lensing with the resolution, sensitivity, and wavelength coverage of JWST.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose NIRSpec IFU observations of 4 lensed quiescent galaxies using the G140M and G235M gratings for each target. The total IFU science exposure time ranges from ~7-10 hr per target. We use the NRSIRS2 readout pattern and an 8- or 9-point small cycling dither pattern to improve sampling of the PSF, and to provide redundancy to mitigate contamination from stuck-open MSA shutters and other sources. We will use blank sky within the field of view for background subtraction. In some cases, small OFFSET requirements are intended to increase the available blank sky. V3PA requirements are imposed on some targets to maximize the area of the target contained within the FOV. We also restricted the V3PA for MRG-P0918 to avoid placing particularly bright (H < 9) stars on the MSA.

We will use WATA acquisition to accurately place the extended sources within the FOV. APT raises warnings about the separation of the offset star and target in several cases, but we always found that the guide star availability was not a limiting factor on the schedulable time in the Visit Planner, and so were advised to ignore these warnings.

We also propose relatively short NIRCam images of each target using four filters. We will use the INTRAMODULEBOX 3-point primary dither pattern to mitigate any detector artifacts that could fall near the target of interest. We added small offsets (-10" in X and Y) to ensure that the targets (typical extent ~3 arcsec) fall well within the fully exposed region regardless of the V3PA.