---
id: 4912
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Stefano Carniani"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "22.9/0.0"
program_title: "Mapping the multi-phase outflows in z~6 luminous quasars"
type: "GO"
---
# 4912 - Mapping the multi-phase outflows in z~6 luminous quasars
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4912
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label     | Observing Template        | Science Target     |
| :-------- | :------------------------ | :----------------- |
| J1148     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (1) J1148+5251     |
| J1148     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (1) J1148+5251     |
| PSOJ183   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (4) P183+05        |
| J1319     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (2) J1319+0950     |
| J2310     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (3) J2310+1855     |
| J2054     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (5) J2054-0005     |

---

## ABSTRACT

Old, passive, and massive galaxies observed at z~4-5 must have undergone through quenching at z~6. Massive galactic outflows were considered to be the most efficient mechanism for rapid quenching in the early Universe. However, current observations of molecular and neutral atomic gas at z~6 have suggested that they may not be powerful enough to sweep gas out of massive galaxies. Since recent works have highlighted that ionized gas may account for a significant part of the total outflowing gas in such massive high-z galaxies, we propose JWST/NIRSpec observations to map the warm ionized gas in five z~6 quasars showing evidence of massive cool (molecular/neutral) outflows, which all have a mass loading factor less than or of the order of one when only the cool gas phase is considered. By mapping the broad components of the optical nebular lines (e.g. [OIII]5007, Halpha) with NIRSpec IFU observations, we will be able to reveal ionized outflowing gas on kpc scales and estimate its key physical properties such as size, velocity, and mass. The properties of the ionized gas combined with those of the cool phase will establish how efficient galactic outflows are in regulating star formation in the early Universe. We will also investigate if the gas kinematics and morphology are affected by outflows or not.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The goal of this program is to detect the ionized outflowing gas in five z~6 quasars by mapping the broad component of the [OIII] line at 5007 A and Balmer lines such as Halpha. We have selected five galaxies with clear evidence of massive outflow to maximize our chance to detect the ionized gas in outflow.

We will obtain NIRSpec IFU observations with the configuration G395H/F290LP which covers the wavelength range between 2.87 um and 5.28 um.

We will not perform Target Acquisition, since the absolute JWST pointing accuracy of 0.1arcsec is more than sufficient given the size of our targets. The allowed PA range is defined to avoid bright source.

The exposure time is based on the ETC version 3.0.

We will use NRSIRS2 readout pattern mode to reduce the data volume. For all source we will use the same configuration

No target acquisition
6-point dither pattern (medium)
25 groups, 1 integrations per dither position
Readout mode: NRSIRS2
Total exposure time on source: 11029 sec

27 January 2025
Included constraints on the position angle (PA) of J1148+5251 to minimize contamination from a bright galaxy in the field.