---
id: 4929
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Jean Turner"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "11.94/0.0"
program_title: "Exploring the Birth and Early Evolution of Massive Star Clusters with JWST"
type: "GO"
---
# 4929 - Exploring the Birth and Early Evolution of Massive Star Clusters with JWST
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4929
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label          | Observing Template                | Science Target      |
| :------------- | :-------------------------------- | :------------------ |
| NGC1569IR-Mosaic | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) NGC1569-IR      |
| NGC1569-BCK1   | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) NGC1569-BCK1    |
| NGC1569-A      | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) NGC1569-A       |

## ABSTRACT

We propose to use JWST to map out the evolution of massive star clusters from birth to adulthood. The targets are the youngest clusters in the local dwarf galaxy NGC1569, with ages ranging from 0.5-25 Myr. Using MIRI/MRS IFU on JWST, we will image the full mid-infrared spectrum in these young embedded and partially embedded clusters; we expect to detect nebular forbidden lines, HI recombination lines, PAH features, H2 lines, and dust continuum. The JWST data will be combined with existing submillimeter images with similar spatial resolution of excited lines of CO, HCN, and HCO+ and each cluster individually modeled with Cloudy. With this dataset we can observe how cluster emission properties vary with evolutionary stage and arrive at self-consistent models for forming clusters. The goal is to determine how the star-forming gas within giant clusters evolves in a changing stellar environment over time, and through modeling, measure the evolution of their stellar contents.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to use MIRI/MRS to obtain IFU spectra of young star clusters in the dwarf galaxy NGC1569. All four channels of the MRS will be used to obtain the full 4.9-28.8 micron spectrum at the highest spectral resolution in sources with strong mid-IR continuum. The proposal seeks to understand evolutionary patterns in the mid-IR nebular fine structure lines, PAHs, and molecules in clusters of different excitation, evolutionary stages and luminosities within the same host galaxy, which allows the initial gas conditions to be controlled. Targets include MIR1 and MIR2, deeply embedded and extremely young clusters, < 1Myr of age, with estimated masses of 1e5 solar masses; MIR2 is so young that has not yet formed an HII region. Other targets are nearby regions with bright mid-IR continuum emission that are lower in luminosity and/or older, as well as nebulosity near older SSCs A and B. The MIRI mid-IR data will be compared with a submillimeter line survey at high resolution of the same clusters. Line fluxes from the individual regions will be statistically analyzed using regression analysis and principal component analysis. The goal is to determine how mid-IR nebular, continuum, PAH emission and molecules evolve over time in the gaseous surroundings of the youngest and most luminous star clusters.