---
id: 4931
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/LRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Megan Mansfield"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "16.11/0.0"
program_title: "Constraining the atmosphere of the terrestrial exoplanet TOI-4481b"
type: "GO"
---
# 4931 - Constraining the atmosphere of the terrestrial exoplanet TOI-4481b
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4931
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                  | Observing Template              | Science Target      |
| :--------------------- | :------------------------------ | :------------------ |
| TOI-4481 Visit 1       | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) TOI-4481        |
| Visit 1 Background     | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) TOI-4481-BKG    |
| TOI-4481 Visit 2       | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) TOI-4481        |
| Visit 2 Background     | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) TOI-4481-BKG    |
| TOI-4481 Visit 3       | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) TOI-4481        |
| Visit 3 Background     | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) TOI-4481-BKG    |

---

## ABSTRACT

JWST will provide the first opportunity to search for signs of habitability on terrestrial planets orbiting M dwarf stars. However, it is currently unknown whether planets around M dwarfs can retain atmospheres given the relatively violent history of extreme UV irradiation from their host stars. The first step to understanding the habitability of rocky planets is therefore to establish whether M dwarf terrestrial planets can retain significant atmospheres. Furthermore, terrestrial exoplanets well inside the inner edge of the habitable zone offer a chance to test theories of atmospheric evolution in a previously unexplored regime.
We propose to use MIRI/LRS secondary eclipse observations to search for the presence of an atmosphere on the terrestrial M dwarf planet TOI-4481b and to constrain its composition. TOI-4481b is the highest signal-to-noise terrestrial planet for these observations other than LHS 3844b, which has been previously observed with Spitzer and found to not possess an atmosphere. We find that with three secondary eclipse observations of TOI-4481b we can determine whether or not it has an atmosphere with a surface pressure of P>=1 bar at the 5-sigma significance level. The observed spectrum will also constrain the composition of its atmosphere (if one is observed) at the >=2-sigma significance level. If no atmosphere is detected, we will study the impact of space weathering on TOI-4481b by constraining its dayside albedo to within 0.05. These observations will provide valuable data for constraining the impact of M dwarf irradiation on terrestrial planet atmospheres.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will perform time-series observations to measure the secondary eclipse of the exoplanet TOI-4481b, which lasts 0.884 hours. In addition to this length of time, we include 2 hours of baseline, as a 2/1 ratio of baseline to in-eclipse observing should allow us to successfully identify and remove systematics. We also include 30 minutes to allow the telescope to settle, following recommendations from Cycle 1 observations. Including overheads, the total time we request for these observations is therefore 5.37 hours per eclipse, or a total of 16.11 hours for the three eclipse observations.

MIRI/LRS time-series observations use the SLITLESSPRISM mode without dithers. We used PandExo to simulate our proposed observations and determine the optimal observing pattern. We will use the FASTR1 readout pattern with 5 groups/integration and 12766 integrations/exposure. This observing strategy will ensure we remain below 84% of the saturation limit and has an overall efficiency of 67%.

We will use the F1500W filter for target acquisition. Our single target acquisition integration will consist of 4 groups, which will result in a SNR of 520 for target acquisition while staying at 25% of the saturation limit. We also include a background observation after the secondary eclipse, as recommended by Cycle 1 time-series observations with MIRI/LRS. The background observation is a sequence of 10 integrations with 5 groups/integration (the same as the science observation) but offset by 16" from the science observation.