---
id: 4938
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Jonathan Fortney  Co-PIs: Zhecheng Hu, Zitao Lin, and Sharon Xuesong Wang"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "24.29/0.0"
program_title: "A Tale of Two Warm Giants: Characterizing the Atmospheres of TOI-2525 b & c"
type: "GO"
---
# 4938 - A Tale of Two Warm Giants: Characterizing the Atmospheres of TOI-2525 b & c
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4938
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label      | Observing Template                  | Science Target |
| :--------- | :---------------------------------- | :------------- |
| TOI-2525 b | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) TOI-2525   |
| TOI-2525 c | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) TOI-2525   |

## ABSTRACT

Warm giant planets with equilibrium temperatures between 300 and 600 K are unique objects where carriers of C, N, and O all exhibit visible signatures in the atmospheric absorption spectra. As a result, warm giants are sensitive probes to planet formation models as both C/O and N/O ratios can be constrained observationally. We propose to observe the transmission spectra of the warm giant pair, TOI-2525 b and c, which has the highest Transmission Spectroscopic Metric among all appropriate systems hosting multiple transiting warm giants. Having two co-natal warm giant planets provides distinctive leverages in constraining the co-growth and interactions of the pair in the protoplanetary disk, including scenarios where the outer planet may block the inward drifting pebbles and alter the composition of the inner planet. In addition, the atmospheres of warm giants are scarcely observed compared with hot Jupiters or even cold Jupiters in our own Solar System, which have multiple in-depth and in-situ probes. Therefore, theories predicting disequilibrium chemistry and cloud formation in the 300-600K temperature range are rarely tested. This pair of warm giants will serve as an important benchmark in both intra-system and inter-system comparative studies differential to our Solar System, and it will also provide more context for other warm and temperature giants and T/Y transition brown dwarfs that will be observed with JWST spectroscopy or direct imaging.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to observe TOI-2525\,b and c with JWST NIRSpec PRISM using the Bright Object Time Series (BOTS) mode with the S1600A1 slit to obtain transmission spectra from 0.5 to 5.3 microns. The transit duration is 4.1 hours for TOI-2525 b 5.5 hours for TOI-2525 c. We also need to observe a 1:1 in-transit/out-of-transit baseline to obtain high signal-to-noise ratio spectra and to remove potential instrument systematics. Therefore, the exposure time is 8.2 hours and 11 hours for TOI-2525 b and c, respectively, resulting in a total exposure time and total charged time of 24.29 and 19.2 hours, respectively.

For detector settings, we use the NRSRAPID readout patterns and SUB512 subarray with 6 groups/integration, which is the maximal number before saturation. As a result, each integration is 1.6s, and the total integrations are 18409 and 24695 for TOI-2525 b and c, respectively. The Timing Special Requirements are set with a one-hour window to ensure the observation will start before the transit. The windows are calculated based on the transit-timing variation (TTV) predictions.

We will use Wide Aperture Target Acquisition (WATA) to reach the best pointing accuracy. We will use TOI-2525 itself as the guide star with SUB32 subarray, NRSRAPID readout pattern, and F110W filter.