---
id: 4967
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Yifan Zhou"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "25.57/0.0"
program_title: "Dwarfs of Fire and Ice: Mapping the Irradiated Atmospheres of White Dwarf-Brown Dwarf Binaries with NIRSpec PRISM Phase Curves"
type: "GO"
---
# 4967 - Dwarfs of Fire and Ice: Mapping the Irradiated Atmospheres of White Dwarf-Brown Dwarf Binaries with NIRSpec PRISM Phase Curves
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4967
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label         | Observing Template                | Science Target      |
| :------------ | :-------------------------------- | :------------------ |
| WD1202        | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) WD1202          |
| WD-0137-349   | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (2) WD0137          |
| SDSS1411      | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (3) SDSS1411        |
| ZTF0038       | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (5) ZTFJ0038+2030   |
| WD1032        | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (4) WD1032          |

---

## ABSTRACT

Spectral phase curves are the most powerful tool for probing the processes that shape the three-dimensional structures in tidally-locked and highly irradiated atmospheres. White dwarf-brown dwarf (WD-BD) binary systems, characterized by high phase-curve amplitudes and short orbital periods, are particularly advantageous for such observations. Phase-resolved spectroscopy of these irradiated brown dwarfs offers the most rigorous validation for planetary atmospheric and circulation models.

We propose NIRSpec PRISM BOT observations of five WD-BD binaries. Our targets straddle the temperature ranges of hot and ultra-hot Jupiters. The extremely high signal-to-noise spectral phase curves allow us to map the thermal profiles, clouds, and molecular features in the five irradiated brown dwarfs. These maps constrain four key processes --- circulation, vertical mixing, condensate clouds, and photochemistry --- and their impact on the spectral appearance of planetary atmospheres. The high-precision phase curves will challenge planetary atmospheric models and thereby catalyzing breakthroughs in the atmospheric characterization of exoplanets. NIRSpec PRISM's unparalleled time-series capabilities and wavelength coverage are indispensable for achieving our scientific objectives.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will conduct NIRSpec/Prism bright object time series (BOT) observations of five white dwarf/ brown dwarf binaries. The aim of the observations is to obtain 0.6-5.3 micron thermal emission phase curves of the brown dwarfs.

Instrument setups for the observation of each target are almost identical. Before the spectroscopic observations, one set of target acquisition exposures will be taken. The target acquisition images will have SNRs above 25. The Sub512 subarray will be used. Exposure readout pattern will be NRS for all five targets. The groups per integration numbers are set to maximize the SNR and ensure good cadence. And the total integration number is set to ensure the target is monitored for one period. ETC predicts that the SNRs per resolution unit are above 140 at 1.2 microns and above 20 at 4.5 microns for one integration in all three cases. After binning the phase curves to a cadence of 10 samples per period, the average SNRs are above 150 per resolution units for all cases. These are sufficient for our science goals.

Because our observations are time series, we require no parallel observations to be scheduled.

---
March 7: New phase constraints added to Observation 3 and 5.