---
id: 4972
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Lulu Zhang"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "12.32/0.0"
program_title: "Hunting the Kinetic Mode Feedback of AGNs via PAH Features"
type: "GO"
---
# 4972 - Hunting the Kinetic Mode Feedback of AGNs via PAH Features
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4972
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label          | Observing Template                 | Science Target            |
| :------------- | :--------------------------------- | :------------------------ |
| MIRI/MRS       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) NGC-1097-MRS          |
| NIRSpec/IFU    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy           | (7) NGC-1097-NIRSpec      |
| MIRI/MRS-BKG   | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) NGC-1097-BACKGROUND   |
| MIRI/MRS       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) NGC-1266-MRS          |
| NIRSpec/IFU    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy           | (8) NGC-1266-NIRSpec      |
| MIRI/MRS-BKG   | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (5) NGC-1266-BACKGROUND   |
| MIRI/MRS       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) NGC-3190-MRS          |
| NIRSpec/IFU    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy           | (9) NGC-3190-NIRSpec      |
| MIRI/MRS-BKG   | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (6) NGC-3190-BACKGROUND   |

## ABSTRACT
    The "kinetic mode" feedback given its significance has been widely embraced in recent cosmological simulations of galaxy evolution. Inspired by some studies of Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbons (PAHs) for different types of AGNs, we propose to explore and then utilize the capability of PAH features in diagnosing jet/shock processes that are highly correlated with the kinetic mode feedback. This goal will be achieved through empirical calibrations between PAH features and other infrared diagnostics, along with PAH emission and shcok models for explanations. PAH features are widely distributed from ~3 to 20 micron and the kinetic mode feedback is more prevalent in low lumnosity AGNs (LLAGNs), especially in the low-ionization nuclear emission-line regions (LINERs). Therefore, we propose to obtain the NIRSpec/IFU and MIRI/MRS 2.9-28.5 micron spectroscopy for the central ~300-600 pc regions, where AGN activities are dominant, of 3 well studied nearby LINERs. We will constrain the spatial distributions of intrinsic and relative strengths of different PAH features in these LINERs. The distributions of infrared ionic emission lines and particularly H2 emission lines are also valuable. These lines provide a necessary probe of the underlying physical conditions to explain the PAH characteristics and associate the PAH characteristics with jet/shock processes. Secondly, through comparison with the archived JWST Cycle 1 and 2 spectroscopy of luminous nearby Seyfert galaxies, we will quantify the differences in PAH characteristics in regions dominated by a kinetic feedback versus the "quasar mode" feedback. The latter is more prevalent in luminous, highly accreting Seyfert galaxies.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION
    We propose to obtain the NIRSpec/IFU 2.9-5.1 micron spectroscopy using the G395H/F290LP filter and the full MIRI/MRS 4.9-27.9 micron spectroscopy (Channels 1-4) for the central regions of 3 nearby LINERs. For both the NIRSpec/IFU and MIRI/MRS spectroscopy, we request a single pointing centered on each LINER, with the 4-point dither patten used. We also request a recommended 2-point dither background observation with the same other configurations for the MIRI/MRS spectroscopy of each target. No background observation is requested for the NIRSpec/IFU spectroscopy, but we request specific 1 point observation with the same other configurations for the leakage correction of the NIRSpec/IFU spectroscopy of each target. We use NRSIRS2RAPID and FASTR1 readout modes for NIRSpec/IFU and MIRI/MRS observations, respectively, to avoid saturation considering the bright nuclei of these LINERs. For each dither point, the group number of each integration are 9-12 for the NIRSpec/IFU spectroscopy and 70-90 for the MIRI/MRS spectroscopy, and we request 1 integration for the exposure of each target. In addition, we will also obtain the simultaneously conducted imaging using the filter of F560W, F770W, and F1130W.