---
id: 4979
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Kareem El-Badry"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "11.03/0.0"
program_title: "Uncovering the cold donors of AM CVn binaries"
type: "GO"
---
# 4979 - Uncovering the cold donors of AM CVn binaries
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4979
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label   | Observing Template                 | Science Target          |
| :------ | :--------------------------------- | :---------------------- |
| G235M   | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series  | (1) Gaia14aae           |
| G395M   | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series  | (1) Gaia14aae           |
| G235M   | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series  | (3) ZTFJ1637+49         |
| G395M   | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series  | (3) ZTFJ1637+49         |
| G395M   | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series  | (3) ZTFJ1637+49         |
| G235M   | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series  | (2) SRGeJ0453+62        |
| G395M   | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series  | (2) SRGeJ0453+62        |

## ABSTRACT

We propose high-cadence NIRSpec observations of three eclipsing, long-period AM CVn binaries using the G235M and G395M gratings. These observations will result in the first-ever detection of AM CVn donors, which are cold (T_eff ~ 1000 K) and only observable in the IR. The main goals of our program are to measure the chemical composition of the donors which are expected to consist of a mix of helium and metals produced during nuclear burning of their progenitor stars and to measure their radial velocities, leading to precise constraints on their masses and radii.
These observations will uncover a never-before-observed class of astrophysical object — metal-rich worlds resembling giant planets but consisting mostly of helium and constrain models for the formation of AM CVn binaries, overcoming a major bottleneck to our understanding of several classes of compact binaries.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to observe each of three targets continuously for ~2 hours total with NIRSpec, with ~1 hour each in the G235M and G395M gratings. We will use the bright object time-series (BOTS) mode with the S1600A1 fixed slit and the SUB2048 subarray. We will use the NRSRAPID readout pattern and 50 groups per integration, for an effective integration time of 46 seconds, yielding ~80 integrations per target per grating. Our targets are compact binaries containing a white dwarf and a low-mass, cold donor. The main goals are to measure radial velocities of the donor over a full orbit (~1 hour) in each grating, and to constrain the atmospheric composition of the donors.