---
id: 4982
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Jean-Baptiste Ruffio"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "19.28/0.0"
program_title: "First image and spectrum of a true Jupiter-Saturn Analog"
type: "GO"
---
# 4982 - First image and spectrum of a true Jupiter-Saturn Analog
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=4982
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label          | Observing Template       | Science Target |
| :------------- | :----------------------- | :------------- |
| eps Eri roll 1 | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) eps Eri    |
| eps Eri roll 2 | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) eps Eri    |
| eps Eri roll 2 | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) eps Eri    |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose to take the first image and spectrum of a true Solar System gas giant analog, the emblematic eps Eridani b, with the NIRSpec integral field unit (IFU). Eps Eri b is a known radial velocity planet orbiting a nearby Sun-like star (K2V) at ~3.5 au (7.3 yr period) with a dynamical mass between that of Saturn and Jupiter (0.57-0.78 MJup), which means that it can be directly compared to the Solar System gas giants. This adolescent (400-800 Myr) sub-Jupiter is unique because it lies halfway between the transiting and directly imaged exoplanets in terms of semi-major axis, mass, and age. This region of the parameter space has been inaccessible for spectroscopic characterization until now. Additionally, Cycle 3 is the optimal time to observe the planet because it is at its furthest projected separation, which only happens every 4 years. We will obtain a R~2,700 spectrum in 3-5 um targeting the peak flux of this cool sub-Jupiter (~140-215 K) and enable the first measurements of its brightness, effective temperature, and composition (C/H, O/H, N/S). The direct detection of eps Eri b possible is possible thanks to the demonstration from Cycle 1 data that the NIRSpec IFU can reach a contrast (1e-6 at 1" in 35 min) superior to JWST's coronagraphs.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to take the first image and high resolution spectrum (R=2,700) of eps Eridani b, with the NIRSpec integral field unit (IFU; G395H/F290LP; 2.87 - 5.27 microns).
The host star eps Eri is extremely bright (K=1.7), which means that it will saturate up to 0.5". As a mitigation strategy, we will implement a mosaic pattern with 4 overlapping pointings that avoid the core of the PSF. We also require two rolls (10deg) to mitigate the effect of the diffraction spikes. We optimize the number of groups to yield the highest S/N at the expected separation of the planet so we choose 9 groups (NRSRAPID). We also maximize the number of dither positions, 36 with the small cycling pattern, to improve the sub-pixel sampling of the PSF. For 2 rolls x 4 mosaic tiles x 9 groups x 36 dithers, the total exposure time for this program is therefore 8.6 hours (Science time of 7.76 hours). We require the observation to take place between 17 Dec 2024 - 12 Feb 2025 to maximize the expected separation of the planet relative to the star (1-1.1"). No background subtraction or target acquisition (TA) is required given the brightness of the star.

Summary:
- NIRSpec IFU: G395H/F290LP
- The planet should be detected with a S/N between 3-75.
- Observing window: 17 Dec 2024 - 12 Feb 2025 (cycle 3)
- Total exposure time of 8.6 hours: 2 rolls, 4 mosaic tiles, 36 dither (Small cycling pattern), 9 groups (NRSRAPID)
- No TA
- No background subtraction