---
id: 5014
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging  MIRI/MRS  NIRCam/Imaging  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Leslie Hunt  Co-PIs: Daniela Calzetti"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "21.59/0.0"
program_title: "Anatomy of a Low-Metallicity Starburst"
type: "GO"
---
# 5014 - Anatomy of a Low-Metallicity Starburst
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5014
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                                                     | Observing Template                     | Science Target             |
| :-------------------------------------------------------- | :------------------------------------- | :------------------------- |
| NGC5253 NIRCAMS W+LW combined                           | NIRCam Imaging                         | (1) NGC-5253               |
| NGC5253 NIRCAMS W+LW combined DUPLICATE with observed removed | NIRCam Imaging                         | (1) NGC-5253               |
| NGC5253 MIRI MRS                                          | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (2) NGC-5253-MRS           |
| NGC5253 #12 MIRI MRS                                      | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (5) NGC5253-12             |
| NGC5253 MIRI MRS Background                               | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (3) NGC-5253-BACKGROUND    |
| NGC5253 MIRI FULL ARRAY BACKGROUND                        | MIRI Imaging                           | (8) MIRI-sub-array-background |
| NGC5253 MIRI FULL ARRAY                                   | MIRI Imaging                           | (9) NGC-5253-copy          |
| NGC5253 MIRI SUB64                                        | MIRI Imaging                           | (10) NGC5253-5-copy        |
| NGC5253 MIRI SUB64 BACKGROUND                             | MIRI Imaging                           | (8) MIRI-sub-array-background |
| NGC5253 MRS-pointing NIRSpec/IFU Leakcal                  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy               | (7) NGC-5253-MRS-NoBck     |
| NGC5253 #5 NIRSpec/IFU Leakcal                            | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy               | NGC5253-5                  |
| NGC5253 #12 NIRSpec/IFU Leakcal                           | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy               | (6) NGC5253-12-NoBck       |

---

## ABSTRACT

Dwarf galaxies, systems with low baryonic masses, are the most abundant population at any redshift. Dwarf systems likely played a major role during the Epoch of Reionization (EoR) because their shallow potential wells make them vulnerable to stellar feedback processes that can enhance the porosity of the interstellar medium (ISM). Reionization and the escape fraction of ionizing (Lyman Continuum, LyC) photons ultimately depend on the ISM porosity. While fesc has been constrained on galactic scales in some high-redshift dwarf galaxies, it cannot be mapped at the critical few parsec scales around the young massive star clusters that drive feedback. Leveraging the parallels between high-z dwarfs and star-forming dwarf galaxies (SFDs) in the Local Universe, we propose a pilot study of the nearby iconic metal-poor SFD, NGC 5253, using NIRCam imaging, NIRSPec/IFU spectroscopy, MIRI imaging, and MRS/IFU spectroscopy. JWST will provide a detailed assessment of feedback on the surrounding ISM, with 2-7 pc resolution, through maps of ionized and warm molecular gas, Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbons, and warm dust. JWST will also quantify dust production in the evolved stellar population, through a census of Asymptotic Giant Branch stars and the past star-formation history. These combined observations will yield a resolved measurement of fesc. This ambitious pilot program exploits JWST's superb infrared sensitivity and spatial resolution for a detailed spatially-resolved analysis that will revolutionize our understanding of stellar feedback, ISM porosity, and stellar dust production in a low-metallicity starburst environment, with potential similarities to conditions at the EoR.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will observe NGC5253 with NIRCam SW+LW imaging, NIRSpec/IFU, and MIRI imaging and MIRI/MRS IFU.

NIRSpec/IFU with G235H/F170LP and G395H/F270LP will be pointed at three groups of selected young, massive star clusters in the galaxy, and MIRI MRS/IFU spectral maps will be obtained for two pointings spanning 5 star clusters. We cover the entire MRS spectral range, using all 3 grating settings (SHORT-A, SHORT-B, SHORT-C). Dedicated background observations are planned, and simultaneous MIRI off-source imaging will be obtained for both MRS pointings (and the background MRS positions) in the same filters.

We will obtain deep NIRCam images with three filter pairs, F115W/F335M + F150W/F360M + F140M/F300M, as well as with two additional filter pairs, F187N/F405N + F182M/F430M. A 3-position MIRI mosaic will be acquired in four filters, F770W, F1000W, F1130W, and F2100W, and we also will obtain a SUB64 image with the same filter set as above. SUB64 avoids saturation for the brightest star cluster in all but a few pixels at the end of the ramp for F2100W.

We have fixed the PA for NIRCAM and MIRI/MRS observations in order to to ensure that the outer regions of the galaxy is well observed, and to acquire additional MIRI imaging on source during the MRS background observation.