---
id: 5015
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Hannah Uebler  Co-PIs: Roberto Maiolino"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "137.82/0.0"
program_title: "Unveiling the nature and impact of the first population of black holes: an extensive NIRSpec-IFU survey in the first billion years"
type: "GO"
---
# 5015 - Unveiling the nature and impact of the first population of black holes: an extensive NIRSpec-IFU survey in the first billion years
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5015
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label              | Observing Template          | Science Target       |
| :----------------- | :-------------------------- | :------------------- |
| JADES 1093         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (1) JADES 1093       |
| JADES 77652        | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (2) JADES 77652      |
| JADES 61888        | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (3) JADES 61888      |
| JADES 954          | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (4) JADES 954        |
| JADES 954          | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (4) JADES 954        |
| JADES 10013704     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (5) JADES 10013704   |
| JADES 10013704     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (5) JADES 10013704   |
| CEERS 00746        | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (6) CEERS 00746      |
| CEERS 00672        | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (7) CEERS 00672      |
| CEERS 02782        | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (8) CEERS 02782      |
| CEERS 00397        | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (9) CEERS 00397      |
| CEERS 00717        | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (10) CEERS 00717     |
| GOODS-N 4014       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (11) GOODS-N-4014    |
| JADES 159717       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (14) JADES 159717    |
| JADES 159717       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (14) JADES 159717    |
| GOODS-N 14409      | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (15) GOODS-N-14409   |
| J1148 18404        | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (19) J1148-18404     |
| J0148 4214         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (20) J0148-4214      |
| UNCOVER 20466      | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (21) UNCOVER 20466   |
| Abell2744 QSO1a    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (22) Abell2744-QSO1a |
| G23 4286           | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (23) G23 4286        |
| G23 13821          | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (24) G23 13821       |
| G23 41225          | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (25) G23 41225       |

---

## ABSTRACT

One of the most exciting results of JWST has been the discovery of a large population of active galactic nuclei (AGN) at high redshift. Their large number density is not the only unexpected finding, they share several other intriguing properties, such as a black hole-to-stellar mass ratio much higher than local galaxies, and a large fraction of dual/binary black holes. These results are being interpreted in the context of different scenarios, especially in terms of early black hole seeding, however major uncertainties are preventing further progress in understanding their nature. We propose a fresh approach by obtaining NIRSpec-IFU spectra of all JWST-discovered broad-line AGN at z>5. While the data will be available for the community to pursue a plethora of science cases, some of the primary goals of the program are: constrain with unprecedented accuracy the stellar and dynamical masses of the host galaxies, hence exploring whether early black holes are truly over-massive or their stellar populations are under-massive; identify binary AGN, tracing merging black holes, and provide predictions for gravitational waves observatories; trace AGN-driven outflows and their feedback on the host galaxies; find SNe at z>5, which may mimic AGN; constrain the AGN contribution to reionization; map the metallicity and chemical enrichment of the host galaxies; search for Population III stars forming in pockets of pristine gas in the haloes, as predicted by recent models.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This program consists of NIRSpec-IFU G395H/F290LP (R~2700) and PRISM (R~100) observations of 30 z>5 broad-line AGN, which have previously been detected through JWST single-slit and grism spectroscopy. The goal is to characterise the host galaxy properties and the immediate environment of this population through high-resolution data of the host interstellar medium to constrain kinematics, outflows and companions, and to constrain the ionisation state in and around the host galaxies through coverage of the rest-frame UV-to-optical lines with the prism. The galaxies are located in the extragalactic deep fields or in lensing clusters. No target acquisition is included since all galaxies are located in well-studied fields containing stars with good astrometry. Small inaccuracies in acquisition are unproblematic because of the 3"x3" NIRSpec-IFS FoV. We use a medium cycling pattern with 8-point to 14-point dithers and 13 to 34 integrations depending on the brightness of the target emission lines (known through previous NIRSpec-MSA or NIRCAM-grism observations), for a total exposure time per target of 1-7.5h with the grating, and 0.5-2h with the prism. The medium cycling pattern provides a good compromise between an amplitude (~0.5") large enough to "jump" failed open microshutters and to deal with other sources of background, while keeping a large FoV (~2.5"x2.5") with complete exposure time. This dither pattern also provides a good sub-pixel sampling. No background exposures are required since each observations contains a large number of spaxels free from emission from the central source or neighbours. We will use spaxels within the IFU FoV free from line emission to perform a background subtraction. Through our dither strategy we minimise the potential impact of MSA leakage, and we have additionally restricted the rolling angle to avoid bright spoilers in the lower MSA quadrants, and therefore do not require leakcal exposures. Our high number of dithers also ensures a sufficient sampling of the PSF.