---
id: 5018
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Philippe Salome  Co-PIs: Megan Donahue"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "22.49/0.0"
program_title: "Feeding the Black-Holes : From cooling filaments to H2 accretion disks"
type: "GO"
---
# 5018 - Feeding the Black-Holes : From cooling filaments to H2 accretion disks
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5018
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label             | Observing Template               | Science Target       |
| :---------------- | :------------------------------- | :------------------- |
| 2A0335+096        | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) 2A0335+096       |
| 2A0335+096-OFF    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) 2A0335+096-OFF   |
| A1795             | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (5) A1795            |
| A1795-OFF         | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (6) A1795-OFF        |
| HYDRA             | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (9) HYDRA            |
| HYDRA-OFF         | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (10) HYDRA-OFF       |
| PKS0745           | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (13) PKS0745-19      |
| PKS0745-OFF       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (14) PKS0745-19-OFF  |
| NGC1275           | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (15) NGC1275         |
| NGC1275-OFF       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (16) NGC1275-OFF     |
| A1068             | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (17) A1068           |
| A1068-OFF         | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (18) A1068-OFF       |

---

## ABSTRACT

Brightest Cluster Galaxies (BCGs) are unique direct evidence of AGN-feedback caught in the act. The large cavities inflated by the AGN-radio lobes have pushed the hot intra-cluster medium and made gigantic bubbles raising buoyantly in the ICM. BCGs lying at the center of cool core clusters (short cooling time) are also surrounded by a huge network of kpc-scale filaments, visible in the optical and detected in warm H2 and cold CO. Those cold filaments are likely formed via thermal instabilities in the low-entropy cluster core. There is strong evidence that AGN-jets themselves play an important role in the local compression and cooling of this gas. BCGs are thus the best objects to study this key piece of the feedback. Once cooled the gas can settle down in the galaxy and feed the central Black Hole, powering the feedback engine. To understand the detailed circulation of the cold gas is of prime importance. The spatial resolution and sensitivity of JWST with MRS and MIRI can (i) map the H2 lines tracing the bulk of the mass in the filaments and seek warm dust at large scales; it can also help (ii) determine the main excitation processes in the filaments (and confirm the important role of shocks) via mid-IR line diagnostics and (iii) map the expected central molecular disks, a yet unobserved element of the feedback cycle.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to use MRS and MIRI to observe a sample of 7 BCGs. We want to put the off-position of MRS in order to cover the central source with MIRI. The off-position of MIRI will be chosen in order to cover the central object with MRS. With such an observing strategy, we will use all the pointings for science. The first goal is to map the H2 S(1) line with MRS. This line together with some other mid-IR lines was already detected by Spitzer for all the sources of the present sample. We now propose to map those line at high spatial resolution in the central region of the BCGs. We want to (i) determine the excitation mechanism of the H2 (UV vs shocks vs energetic particles) and (ii) seek for compact nuclear disk around the central black hole (such pc-scale disk have already been detected in H2 at 2.12mu in the center of NGC 1275). The second aim is to cover with MIRI the full nebula (kpc-scale filaments) that are ubiquitous around BCGs. BCGs are surrounded by bright low-ionisation Halpha filaments (LINER-like excitation). We propose to use 3 bands to cover (i) the H2 S(3) line, (ii) the PAH at 7.7um and (iii) the continuum around 5um. Such a mapping will measure the global extent and content of the warm molecular filamentary structure.