---
id: 5022
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Susana Barros"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "35.44/0.0"
program_title: "Probing the internal structure of WASP-103b"
type: "GO"
---
# 5022 - Probing the internal structure of WASP-103b
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5022
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label          | Observing Template                | Science Target |
| :------------- | :-------------------------------- | :------------- |
| WASP-103PRISM  | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) WASP-103   |

---

## ABSTRACT

We request 35.44 hours of JWST time to observe a phase curve of the ultra-hot Jupiter WASP-103b in order to constrain its internal structure and atmosphere. WASP-103b is a 2.0 Rjup planet in a 22 hour orbit. The close proximity to its host star leads to strong tidal forces which deform the planet. By observing both the transit and phase curve deformation signatures of WASP-103b with JWST, we can directly measure its deformation with a precision 5.7 times higher than current measurements. The higher precision will be crucial to constrain, the planetary internal structure differentiation, in particular, the planet's core mass fraction and the envelope's metallicity. This would be the first time that an unambiguous measurement of the core mass fraction of a giant exoplanet is made. WASP-103b is one of the rare exoplanets for which we can obtain this detailed information, up to now only available for solar system planets. Constraining the internal structure will provide valuable insight into accretion processes that form planets.
The same observations will also allow us to probe the atmospheric chemistry of WASP-103b as a function of orbital phase. We will be able to detect the spectral lines of important carbon, oxygen, and nitrogen compounds and to quantify the degree of cloudiness on the cooler nightside. This will provide carbon-to-oxygen (C/O) ratios and the identification of chemical equilibrium/disequilibrium as a function of orbital phase. We will not only obtain comprehensive understanding of the planet's atmospheric properties across different wavelengths and orbital phases but also establish WASP-103b as a valuable benchmark object for exo-atmospheric studies.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will use NIRSpec BOTS in prism mode to acquire a phase curve (1 transit and 2 occultations) of WASP-103b in order to probe its interior structure and atmosphere's composition. We choose the NIRSpec BOTS in prism mode to be able to achieve maximum precision in the white light curve and obtain the maximum precision of the Love number.
Our observation is time critical and should start before an occultation and finish after an occultation. The two occultations allow us to derive the uncontaminated stellar flux and correct the instrumental ramp observed in other JWST light curve observations or any residual stellar variability. WASP-103 is a very quite F-type star so stellar variability should be very low.
We used PandExo to simulate our proposed observations and determine the observing strategy which follows the phase curve observations of WASP-39b (Rustamkulov et al. 2023). We will use the SUB512 subarray and the NRSRAPID readout pattern. We will use 5 groups per integration resulting in an exposure time of 1.356s. We divided our observations into 2 exposures with 38686 integrations each that results in a total of 77371 integrations lasting 35.44 hours.
WASP-103 is too bright for WATA, hence, we have selected a fainter nearby star for target acquisition.