---
id: 5037
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Coronagraphy"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Elisabeth Matthews"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "12.31/0.0"
program_title: "Confirmation of the closest directly detected exoplanet: a super-Jupiter orbiting Eps Ind A"
type: "GO"
---
# 5037 - Confirmation of the closest directly detected exoplanet: a super-Jupiter orbiting Eps Ind A
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5037
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label              | Observing Template          | Science Target         |
| :----------------- | :-------------------------- | :--------------------- |
| BG_epsindi F1140C  | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging  | (4) BG-NEAR-eps-Ind    |
| EpsIndi F1140C     | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging  | (1) -eps-Ind           |
| DITuc F1140C       | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging  | (2) V-DI-Tuc           |
| BG dituc F1140C    | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging  | (3) BG-NEAR-DI-TUC     |

## ABSTRACT

We will confirm that a candidate companion to Eps Ind A is indeed a massive planet, and detect (or place stringent constraints on) a second massive planet in the system. Eps Ind A is the ideal location to search for solar-age exoplanets: the system is nearby, hosts a known RV planet, and is co-moving with a benchmark brown dwarf binary. Even super-Jupiters orbiting the ~4Gyr Eps Ind A could be as cold as ~200K, far older and colder than any imaged planet to date. Only JWST, with its excellent mid-IR sensitivity, can detect such companions - and these companions would be exquisite targets for detailed atmospheric characterization in future cycles. Radial velocity and astrometric measurements suggest a planet with mass ~3Mjup and semi-major axis ~8-11au - readily resolvable and detectable with JWST/MIRI.

JWST Cycle 1 images of Eps Ind A reveal a candidate companion that is consistent in color and magnitude with a massive (~10Mjup) planet. However, the position angle and mass of the candidate is different than expected from RV/astrometric models of the companion orbit - perhaps suggesting there are two giant planets in this system, with only one of these detected in the MIRI images. No counterpart is seen at the background location in archival Spitzer 8um and 24um images, and the object is challenging to explain as a chance-aligned background. A second epoch of observations will allow us to test for common proper motion to confirm that the source is a planet and not a chance-aligned background, carry out preliminary orbit fitting efforts to constrain a planet mass and test planet evolution models, and place further constraints on a proposed second candidate in the system.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will observe Eps Ind Ab with JWST/MIRI coronagraphic imaging, with the F1140C filter and the FQPM coronagraph. We will also collect PSF reference images of DI Tuc, using the 5-point small grid dither technique. This allows data to be reduced using reference differential imaging (RDI); we do not use angular differential imaging (ADI) for this target. It has been shown that ADI does not significantly improve performance, especially at small projected separations (Carter+2023), where companions would be significantly self-subtracted due to the small roll angles achievable with JWST.

Our program aims to redetect a bright companion at ~4" from the host star, previously detected in Cycle 1. We also aim to reach deep sensitivities at the position angles that were not detectable during the cycle 1 observations due to the coronagraph boundary. We therefore provide a PA aperture constraint of between 53deg and 83deg (+n x 90deg), justified in detail in the technical description. There are no orientation constraints for the reference star.

We will also collect background observations matching both the science and technical setup. This is needed to subtract of the glowstick feature present in MIRI coronagraphic images.

We include all of the observations in a non-interruptible block. It is crucial that the science and PSF observations are collected in a non-interruptible block since the JWST PSF is time-variable, and it is crucial to collect the background observations in a non-interruptible block, to mimic the science background as closely as possible.