---
id: 5058
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Lukas Furtak  Co-PIs: Ashish Meena"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "21.95/12.89"
program_title: "Early stars -- Properties of lensed stars at z~7"
type: "GO"
---
# 5058 - Early stars -- Properties of lensed stars at z~7
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5058
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label    | Observing Template | Science Target     |
| :------- | :----------------- | :----------------- |
| Epoch 1  | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) CLG-0451-03    |
| Epoch 2  | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) CLG-0451-03    |
| Epoch 3  | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) CLG-0451-03    |
| Epoch 4  | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) CLG-0451-03    |
| Epoch 5  | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) CLG-0451-03    |

---

## ABSTRACT

Recent years have seen the advent of a new method to directly observe individual stars at cosmological distances through the micro-lensing effect that occurs when a star in a distant lensed galaxy crosses the caustic of a foreground lens. Its unprecedented sensitivity and spatial resolution make JWST the perfect observatory to detect and study these ultra-faint sources and indeed, every JWST observation of a lensing cluster to date has yielded at least one lensed star candidate. We propose here a small pioneering JWST/NIRCam imaging program specifically designed to monitor the highest-redshift caustic-crossing arc known to date in order to detect extremely magnified stars. The target is the spectroscopically confirmed z=6.7 arc in the cluster MS 0451.6-0305. Several characteristics of this arc make it especially well suited for detecting lensed stars: its configuration that makes it cross the caustic not once but twice and therefore yields a very large caustic-crossing area in which micro-lensed stars can become observable, and its high-redshift nature which enhances the attainable magnifications. The lensing magnification pushes single stars to observed magnitudes brighter than 29 AB, depths easily achievable with JWST. Our program will not only crown the new highest-redshift stars observed to date, but also for the first time directly constrain the radii of individual stars on such cosmological distances.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will obtain deep NIRCam imaging of the strong lensing galaxy cluster MS 0451.6-0305 aimed at monitoring the z=6.7 caustic-crossing arc that resides in this cluster in order to detect and characterize single micro-lensed stars in this arc that become visible when they cross the caustic.
Since these are transient sources, the observations are split into 5 visits, or epochs, of 2.5h integration time on target each. In each epoch, the cluster-field will be imaged to 29 AB (5-sigma) depth in each of 6 broad-band filters: F115W, F150W, F200W, F277W, F356W and F444W. The full cluster-field fits well into one NIRCam module. We apply a simple 3-point INTRAMODULEBOX dither pattern with sub-pixel dithering and make sure to place the arc in the middle of one of the module quadrants in order to obtain the smoothest possible sky background.
In order to be able to measure the transit-time of the stars on the caustic and thus constrain their radii, we require that the different visits to the cluster be observed no less than 2 days and no more than 5 days apart.
In addition, we require all observations to be taken with the same position angle to assure optimal image subtraction when searching for transient sources.
Since all of our NIRCam observations need to be observed at the same position angle, we leverage the total integration time by also taking NIRISS imaging of a blank parallel-field in parallel. The NIRISS observations will also reach a total depth of ~29 AB at 5-sigma in 7 broad-band filters: F090W, F115W, F150W, F200W, F277W, F356W, F444W, and a 5-sigma depth of ~28 AB in one medium-band filter, F430M. These ultra-deep parallel-field observations will contribute to the efforts to detect high-redshift galaxies with JWST.