---
id: 5064
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Shmuel Bialy"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "12.66/0.0"
program_title: "Constraining Cosmic Rays with H2 Ro-Vibrational Excitation in Dense Clouds"
type: "GO"
---
# 5064 - Constraining Cosmic Rays with H2 Ro-Vibrational Excitation in Dense Clouds
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5064
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label      | Observing Template             | Science Target         |
| :--------- | :----------------------------- | :--------------------- |
| Source     | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (1) BARNARD68          |
| Background | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (2) BACKGROUND-REGION |

---

## ABSTRACT

Low energy (E < 1 GeV) cosmic rays (CRs) play a key role in regulating the chemical and thermal state of molecular clouds. These CRs penetrate into the clouds' interior, ionizing H2 molecules, (i) generating gas heating, (ii) initiating chemical reactions leading to a rich array of molecules, and (iii) providing coupling of the gas to the Galactic magnetic fields. Yet, to date, the value of the CR ionization rate (CRIR), remains highly uncertain. Recently, it has been shown that the CRIR may be derived by observing H2 rovibrational emission lines in cold, dense molecular clouds. The idea is that the same CRs that provide ionization also excite the vibrational modes of H2 resulting in line emission in the near-IR with an intensity proportional to the CRIR.

We propose to observe the H2 line emission spectrum in the dark cloud Barnard 68, and obtain the CRIR.

Due to the atmospheric background, ground-based observations are not capable of detecting these faint lines. In contrast, NIRSpec/JWST can effectively detect these key H2 transitions with a high SNR. This would be the first detection of H2 vibrational emission lines in a molecular cloud and a first-time application of the H2 method for determining the CRIR. The constrained CRIR value will have direct implications on the poorly-known spectrum of low-energy proton CRs, and CR propagation theories. Furthermore, this observation will open a window for future determinations of the CRIR in the ISM in the Milky Way and beyond, shedding new light on the origin and propagation modes of Galactic CRs.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to observe the starless core, B68, using the MOS-NIRSpec instrument. Since the angular size of B68 is well matched to the field of view of NIRSpec, we plan to use the MOS mode to collect light from a large portion of the cloud. In practice we use the MSA to compose a long slit, and then we will stack the spectra from all (or a significant part of the) shutters to obtain a deep spectrum. We adopt the G235H grating because it covers the most interesting spectral region in the near-infrared range, where many CR-sensitive emission lines are found. We choose the high-resolution grating, which yields a minimal loss in SNR compared to the medium-resolution grating, because it allows us to resolve the 1-0 Q(1) line from the 1-0 Q(2) line.