---
id: 5069
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Francesco D'Eugenio  Co-PIs: Karl Glazebrook"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "23.02/0.0"
program_title: "Weighting the odd: dynamics, assembly history and quenching of the oldest galaxy in the young Universe"
type: "GO"
---
# 5069 - Weighting the odd: dynamics, assembly history and quenching of the oldest galaxy in the young Universe
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5069
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :---- | :----------------- | :------------- |
| 1     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) ZF-UDS-7329-3.19 |
| 2     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) ZF-UDS-7329-3.19 |

---

## ABSTRACT

ZF-UDS-7329 is one of the most remarkable objects to have been discovered by JWST in its first year of operations (Glazebrook et al., 2023). This galaxy stands out as by far the oldest high-redshift galaxy, with a formation redshift of z = 11 and a stellar mass M*>10^11 MSun. At the time of formation, the volume density of this type of galaxy is much higher than that of dark-matter haloes sufficiently massive to host it; its stellar mass and age would have required a baryon-to-dark-matter fraction higher than the cosmic value, which is impossible. In addition, the old age and lack of star formation in ZF-UDS-7329 require quenching to have happened extremely quickly. Existing JWST data may support this scenario, with spectral features hinting at non-solar chemical abundances and neutral gas outflows. Unfortunately, our understanding of this unique object is currently severely limited by the low resolution of the existing prism spectrum. However, this is easy to fix: we propose to observe ZF-UDS-7329 in high spectral resolution with the NIRSpec IFU, to measure its dynamical mass, chemical abundances, gas properties, and spatially resolved star-formation history. Its dynamical mass will provide the true mass of this galaxy, and and a test of IMF assumptions. Its chemical abundance pattern will allow us to see if this galaxy really did form extremely quickly at z>10. This analysis will be able to confirm or rule out the tension between previous observations and theory. Its impact extends to many fields: stellar kinematics and galaxy assembly, initial mass functions, chemical abundances, SMBH feedback and quenching, and, possibly, even the theory itself of galaxy formation.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose ultra-deep NIRSpec IFS spectroscopy of a massive quiescent galaxy at z=3.2 (ZF-UDS-7329). We aim to detect spatially resolved stellar absorption and to measure spatially resolved star-formation histories.
There are two configurations:
NIRSpec/IFS G235H/F170LP 15:20 h on source
NIRSpec/IFS PRISM/CLEAR 2:45 h on source
The grating has significantly longer integration, because of differences in efficiency and science goals.