---
id: 5086
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Roberto Maiolino"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "48.28/0.0"
program_title: "Confirming Population III or a Direct Collapse Black Hole in the halo of GN-z11 at z=10.6"
type: "GO"
---
# 5086 - Confirming Population III or a Direct Collapse Black Hole in the halo of GN-z11 at z=10.6
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5086
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :---- | :----------------- | :------------- |
| IFS   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) GNz11      |

---

## ABSTRACT

Previous observations have revealed HeII emission in the halo of the luminous galaxy GN-z11 at z=10.6, which could be tracing either Population III stars (formed in a pocket of pristine gas, as expected by some models) or an accreting Direct Collapse Black Hole (DCBH), in the earliest (pristine) phases of its formation. However, the detection is still tentative (5 sigma). We propose to obtain a deep NIRSpec-IFS observation (40 hours on-source), with the high resolution grating, with the primary goal of confirming the HeII detection in the halo of GN-z11 and discriminate between the PopIII and DCBH scenarios. The confirmation of the detection of either of these long-sought objects would be a groundbreaking discovery. In addition, the observation will tackle a wealth of additional science cases, such as: trace the ionization cone and outflow in GN-z11, which is key for understanding the onset of AGN feedback in early galaxies; determine the C/O abundance in the host galaxy of GN-z11 and in its circumgalacting medium, possibly confirming signatures of PopIII enrichment; accurately measure the black hole mass of GN-z11; disentangle the nitrogen emission from the Broad Line Region in GN-z11 from the emission coming from of the host galaxy, hence constraining the N/O abundance in the nuclear region of GN-z11 and its host galaxy; confirm the presence of WR stars and their spatial distribution, hence providing tight constraints on the age of the stellar population in GN-z11.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose observations for GN-z11 using the NIRSpec/IFS mode to explore the 2D spatially resolved properties of its ISM and the PopIII cluster 0.5 arcseconds away. To this goal we plan to use the medium resolution (R~2700) G235H/F170LP spectral configurations to target the following lines: CIII]1907,09, NIII], NIV] and HeII1640 in GN-z11 and its surrounding.

These lines have measured fluxes in the range of 5-22 x 10^-19 erg/s/cm2 from NIRSPEC/MSA observations using PRISM and R1000 gratings in previous IFS and MSA observtions (Bunker et al 2023, Maiolino et al 2023, Scholtz et al 2023). Considering these values and assuming a linewidth of ~120 km/s, with 40 hours of exposure time for G235H/F170LP_the ETC gives an integrated S/N >10 (depending on the line) at the central ~0.6 arcsec region, then allowing us to explore its 2D properties beyond that zone.

No target acquisition is included, as the accuracy of the direct JWST pointing is enough to guarantee that the target is well centered in the NIRSpec IFU FoV.

To minimize the redout noise we use NRSIRS2 readout pattern with 25 groups per integration. To each a total exposure time of ~40 hr, we use 38 dither positions with 2 integrations per exposure. We select a cycling medium dither pattern, which provides a good compromise between an amplitude (~0.5 ") large enough to "jump" the failed open microshutters, and to deal with other sources of background. This dither pattern also provides a good sub-pixel sampling, and allows to reconstruct the datacube with spaxels of 50 mas.

No extra background exposures are included. At high resolution we expect the background to be low and, in addition, there will plenty of spaxels free from galaxy emission suitable to derive the background.

We do not ask for MSA lekeage exposures, as we have verified that there are not very bright targets on the MSA FoV that could contaminate the IFU spectra. In addition, the presence of possible leakage would mainly affect the continuum, but our main goal is the analysis of the emission lines. We restricted PA to avoid bright stars in the FoV of the MSA masks.