---
id: 5094
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 3
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging  MIRI/LRS  NIRCam/Imaging  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Martin Cordiner"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "19.83/0.0"
program_title: "Composition of an Interstellar Object - Unique Insights into Protoplanetary Disk Midplane Chemistry"
type: "GO, Carry-Over ToO, Non-Disruptive ToO"
---
# 5094 - Composition of an Interstellar Object - Unique Insights into Protoplanetary Disk Midplane Chemistry
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5094
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                  | Observing Template             | Science Target  |
| :--------------------- | :----------------------------- | :-------------- |
| Prism (epoch1)         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy       | (2) 31 ATLAS    |
| Prism (epoch1) nod off | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy       | (2) 31 ATLAS    |
| Prism (epoch2)         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy       | (2) 31 ATLAS    |
| Prism (epoch2) nod off | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy       | (2) 31 ATLAS    |
| Prism (epoch3)         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy       | (2) 31 ATLAS    |
| Prism (epoch3) nod off | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy       | (2) 31 ATLAS    |
| Grating                | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy       | (2) 31 ATLAS    |
| Grating nod off        | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy       | (2) 31 ATLAS    |
| LRS                    | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) 31 ATLAS    |
| LRS nod off            | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) 31 ATLAS    |
| NIRCam                 | NIRCam Imaging                 | (2) 31 ATLAS    |
| MIRI Imaging           | MIRI Imaging                   | (2) 31 ATLAS    |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose spectroscopy and imaging with NIRSpec, NIRCam and MIRI to investigate the physical and chemical properties of a target-of-opportunity interstellar object (ISO), to help elucidate the nature and origin of this fundamentally new class of astronomical body. We will perform a deep search for outgassing using the NIRSpec prism over three epochs. If a coma is clearly visible, higher-resolution grating observations will be used to measure the production rates of multiple coma gases (including H2O, CO2, CH4, CH3OH, CO, HCN, H2CO and C2H6), to determine the ice content of the nucleus. MIRI-LRS spectroscopy will reveal the coma dust composition, while NIRCam and MIRI imaging will measure the nucleus size. In the absence of significant outgassing, our near-to-mid-IR observations have been designed to directly measure the ISO's surface composition and spectral shape, for comparison with Solar System asteroids. We will target an ISO similar to (or brighter than) 1I/'Oumuamua and 2I/Borisov, with V <~25 mag. Only JWST has the sensitivity to perform the required gas, dust and nucleus measurements in the event of a faint apparition. The proposed observations will provide new insights into the diversity of protoplanetary disk midplane chemistry in our Galaxy, and in a sufficiently bright and gas-rich object (V<~19), will yield a comprehensive inventory of the volatiles available for pre-biotic chemistry in a planetary system other than our own.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This non-disruptive target-of-opportunity program will be triggered for a single interstellar object (ISO) in JWST Cycle 3, 4 or 5, meeting the required figure-of-merit criteria Q/rH^1.5/Delta > 10^23 s^-1 au^-2.5 (where Q is the coma molecular production rate, rH is the heliocentric distance and Delta the geocentric distance), or visual magnitude criteria V < 25. We also require an ephemeris motion of <270"/h to remain within the JWST tracking capabilities. NIRSpec prism spectroscopy will be performed on three epochs. NIRSpec G395H/F290LP grating spectroscopy, MIRI-LRS spectroscopy, NIRCam imaging and MIRI imaging will be performed on one epoch. The precise observation epochs will be determined based on the trajectory of the ISO-of-interest through the JWST field of regard, and are likely to be spread several weeks apart, with the first observation being performed as soon as the object is bright enough to reach our triggering threshold. The longer (1 hr) NIRSpec prism exposure, the NIRSpec grating exposure and the MIRI + NIRCam exposures will be performed when the object is close to its brightest (expected to be around perihelion). When planning the timing of our three observing epochs, we will also take into account the proximity of the object to the telescope, and the object's motion through the field of regard. Out-of-field nodding exposures will be required for our NIRSpec and MIRI observations, due to the diffuse, extended nature of cometary comae, to help remove the background zodiacal light. Our observational triggers have a 14-day lead time, and an up-to-date ephemeris will be provided within 1 week of the expected observations. Typical ephemeris errors for well-studied targets (such as an ISO) are <~1", which will be sufficient to place our target well within the NIRSpec IFU without need for target acquisition. Our MIRI-LRS observations, however, will likely require acquisition and peakup to center the target in the 0.5" slit.