---
id: 5105
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging  NIRCam/WFSS  NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Yue Shen  Co-PIs: Mingyang Zhuang"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "129.03/46.11"
program_title: "NEXUS: the North ecliptic pole EXtragalactic Unified Survey"
type: "GO, Treasury"
---
# 5105 - NEXUS: the North ecliptic pole EXtragalactic Unified Survey
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5105
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                          | Observing Template                      | Science Target                     |
| :----------------------------- | :-------------------------------------- | :--------------------------------- |
| Wide-epoch1 WFSS-1             | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (1) NEXUS-Center                   |
| Deep-epoch1 NIRCam             | NIRCam Imaging                          | (1) NEXUS-Center                   |
| Deep-epoch1 NIRSpec MOS        | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy        | (3) nexus_msa_src_cat_updated      |
| Deep-epoch2 NIRCam             | NIRCam Imaging                          | (1) NEXUS-Center                   |
| Deep-epoch2 NIRSpec MOS        | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy        | (4) msa_catalog_deep_ep2           |
| Deep-epoch3 NIRCam             | NIRCam Imaging                          | (1) NEXUS-Center                   |
| Deep-epoch3 NIRSpec MOS        | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy        | (7) msa_catalog_deep_ep3_enlarged  |
| Deep-epoch4 NIRCam             | NIRCam Imaging                          | (1) NEXUS-Center                   |
| Deep-epoch4 NIRSpec MOS        | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy        | (4) msa_catalog_deep_ep2           |
| Deep-epoch5 NIRCam             | NIRCam Imaging                          | (1) NEXUS-Center                   |
| Deep-epoch5 NIRSpec MOS        | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy        | (4) msa_catalog_deep_ep2           |
| Deep-epoch6 NIRCam             | NIRCam Imaging                          | (1) NEXUS-Center                   |
| Deep-epoch6 NIRSpec MOS        | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy        | (4) msa_catalog_deep_ep2           |
| Wide-epoch1 WFSS-2             | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (1) NEXUS-Center                   |
| Wide-epoch1 WFSS-2 Copy of Tile-6 | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (5) NEXUS-Center-Tile-6            |

---

## ABSTRACT

NEXUS is a proposed multi-cycle treasury spectroscopic survey around the North Ecliptic Pole with exquisite optical through MIR photometry and temporal sampling. It contains two overlapping tiers. The Wide tier (~400 arcmin^2) performs NIRCam/WFSS 2.4-5micron grism spectroscopy with three epochs over 3 cycles. The Deep tier (~50 arcmin^2) performs high-multiplexing NIRSpec 0.6-5.3micron MOS/PRISM spectroscopy for up to ~10,000 targets, over 18 epochs with a 2-month cadence. All epochs have simultaneous deep NIRCam and MIRI imaging. The field is within the continuous viewing zone of JWST, and is fully covered in the Euclid Deep Field North, with a wealth of deep multi-wavelength data to maximize synergy across wavelengths and science areas.

NEXUS has three science pillars. First, with its massive spectroscopic sample and deep photometry, it will perform efficient classification and physical characterization of galaxies and AGNs from z~1 to Cosmic Dawn. With the large contiguous area coverage, it will measure the spatial clustering and demography of the first galaxies and SMBHs at z>6. Second, multi-epoch observations enable systematic time-domain investigations, focusing on z>3 supernova searches and low-mass AGN reverberation mapping. Third, the comprehensive data set from three JWST instruments will enable knowledge transfer to other legacy fields, create data challenges, and initiate benchmark work for future space missions. With rapid public releases of processed data and an open invitation for participation, NEXUS aims for broad and swift community engagement, to become a powerhouse to drive transformative advancements in multiple key science areas of astronomy.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The NEXUS project is a multi-instrument, multi-cycle (Cycles 3,4,5), multi-epoch JWST treasure survey, aiming at addressing three fundamental science thrusts: (1) Galaxy science with a focus on the z ~> 6 populations; (2) Time-domain science with focuses on transients and AGN reverberation mapping; (3) Data challenges and applications to broader JWST data and astronomical communities. The program consists of two tiers of area coverage. A Wide tier covers ~400 arcmin^2 with NIRCam/WFSS grism spectroscopy (2.4-5 micron), and a Deep tier covers the central ~50 arcmin2 with NIRSpec MOS/PRISM spectroscopy (0.6-5.3 micron). Both tiers have deep NIRCam imaging and parallel MIRI imaging to cover ~0.9-15 micron.

The time request is ~equally divided in three cycles, with Cycle 3 receiving slightly more time. In Cycle 3, we request one Wide epoch and 6 Deep epochs. The total time charge in Cycle 3 is 129 hrs. Given the duration of Cycle 3 (July 1, 2024 – June 30, 2025), the Wide epoch should be scheduled in July (early Aug is OK) before the first Deep epoch. The Deep epochs have a nominal cadence of ~2 months, though +-2 weeks is also acceptable. [Currently in APT the Deep epochs are restricted to +-1 week, which can be adjusted later.]

Each Wide epoch will cost ~60 hrs and each Deep epoch will cost ~10 hrs.

The detailed observation designs and instrument configurations are described as follows:

\*\*\* Wide Tier:

1.  NIRCam/WFSS
    We will use a combination of F322W2 and F444W filters in the LW channel of WFSS observations paired with F115W and F200W imaging in SW channel to cover a complete wavelength range from ~2.4 to 5 micron with grism spectroscopy. We will also obtain F150W+F356W (in-field) and F090W+F444W (both in-field and out-field) direct imaging after WFSS exposures. We only use Grism-R for WFSS observations since the confusion will be resolved by the detection of multiple emission lines and three different PAs provided by three epochs.

    We will adopt a 4 columns x 9 rows mosaic pattern to cover an area of 21.4'x18.4'=394 arcmin^2. We will use a two-point INTRAMODULEX primary dither pattern to fill the gaps between SW detectors and mitigate the effect of cosmic rays. To save overhead, we do not require subpixel dither, as we will have three observations with different PAs. We will use the SHALLOW4 readout pattern with 6 Groups and 1 Intergration for F322W2 WFSS exposure and the MEDIUM8 with 6 Groups and 1 Intergration for F444W WFSS exposure. Both direct imaging exposures will be obtained with the SHALLOW4 readout pattern with 6 Groups and 1 Intergration. The above configurations will result in a total exposure time of 623s for F322W2 WFSS observations, 1245s for F444W WFSS observations, 311s for F150W+F356W direct imaging, and 934s for F090W+F444W direct imaging (in-field + out-field). Note these numbers are for a single epoch.

    The Wide tier will have three repeated observations (three epochs) with PA rotations of 135 and 270 degrees from the first epoch. This arrangement will result in a cadence of ~16.5 month. Three different PAs will mitigate source confusion in the grism wavelength dispersion direction, and help fill the gaps between two NIRCam Modules. For epochs 2 and 3 in Cycles 4 and 5 respectively, we only require one set of direct imaging, with F150W+356W for epoch 2 and F090W+F444W for epoch 3. We choose the PA of epoch 1, which is scheduable during the first month of Cycle 3. With this fixed PA, we adjust the field center to avoid any bright stars (Ks<10 Vega mag) entering the FoV of our NIRCam observations. Combining three epochs, the coadded exposure is 1869s for F322W2 WFSS grism, and 3735s for F444W WFSS grism.

2.  MIRI parallel
    We will obtain coordinated MIRI parallel imaging in F770W+F1000W+F1280W. These MIRI imaging is important for source classification, target selection and detailed science studies. The F770W imaging will be obtained simultaneously in parallel with the F322W2 WFSS exposures with a total exposure time of 638s (957s in epoch 1 with an additional direct imaging exposure). F1000W will be obtained in parallel simultaneously with the F444W WFSS exposures with a total exposure time of 1260s. F1280W will be obtained simultaneously in parallel with the final direct imaging with a total exposure time of 957s. We will adopt the default FASTR1 readout pattern with 2 or 4 Integrations to avoid longer than 300s integration time.

\*\*\* Deep Tier:

1.  NIRCam imaging primary + MIRI parallel
    NIRCam primary imaging in the Deep tier is necessary to provide the cadenced imaging for time-domain studies, since the FoV coverages of NIRCam and NIRSpec are different (so we cannot use NIRCam parallel with NIRSpec primary). We will use F200W+F444W NIRCam imaging with a FULLBOX 2TIGHTGAPS primary dither to fill the gap between two NIRCam Modules. F200W is essential for high-redshift transient searches. The observations consist of 2 columns x 3 rows mosaics to cover the central 10.8'x6.5'=70 arcmin^2 of the Wide Tier. We will adopt the SHALLOW4 readout pattern with 6 Groups and 1 Integration (same as Wide Tier NIRcam direct imaging), with a total exposure time of 623s.

    We will obtain coordinated MIRI parallel imaging with the NIRCam imaging primary in F1000W with FASTR1 readout pattern, 57 Groups, and 2 Integrations with a total exposure time of 638s. This is to provide additional time-resolved MIRI imaging in Deep to aid time-domain studies.

2.  NIRSpec MOS primary + NIRCam imaging parallel
    We will use NIRSpec MOS spectroscopy with a 2x2 mosaic to obtain deep prism (R=30-300) 0.6-5.3 micron in the central ~7'x7'=49 arcmin^2 covered by Deep Tier NIRCam imaging. We will adopt PRISM/CLEAR grating, NRSIRS2RAPID readout pattern, 43 Groups, and 1 Integration for each pointing. We will adopt a two shutter slitlet nodding to mitigate detector defects, help remove cosmic rays, improve flux accuracy, and improve spatial and spectral sampling. The total exposure time is 1284s per pointing.

    We will obtain coordinated NIRCam parallel F210M+F360M imaging simultaneously with NIRSpec MOS observations. We will use the MEDIUM8 readout pattern with 6 Groups and 1 Intergrations. NIRCam parallel imaging adds two medium filters over ~6'x39'=234 arcmin^2 fully within the Wide Tier NIRCam imaging to improve photometric classification therein. This filter combination can effectively select objects at z=4.6 with both [O II]3727 and Halpha, [O III] emitters at z~6.2, Hbeta emitters at z~6.4, and [O II] emitters at z~8.7.

To achieve the proposed science goals, we will repeat the above observations 18 times (epochs) spread over 3 years (cycles 3,4,5) with a cadence of ~2 months and 6 PAs per year (rotating by ~60 degrees). The total coadded exposure is 623x18=11214s (3.1h) for NIRCam imaging primary and 1284x18=23112s (6.4h) for NIRSpec MOS spectroscopy over 18 epochs.

Pointing positions of NIRSpec MOS observations are provisional, which would be updated after the first Wide Tier epoch.

Epoch 1 of Wide Tier and epochs 1-6 of Deep Tier observations can be scheduled in Cycle 3 with a total charged time of ~129h. Epoch 2 of Wide Tier and epochs 7-12 of Deep Tier observations will be scheduled in Cycle 4 (estimated total charged time of ~119h), while Epoch 3 of Wide Tier and epochs 13-18 of Deep Tier observations will be scheduled in Cycle 5 (estimated total charged time of ~119h).