---
id: 5110
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Luigi Bedin"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "14.18/9.45"
program_title: "omega Centauri: the coolest pieces of its population puzzle"
type: "GO"
---
# 5110 - omega Centauri: the coolest pieces of its population puzzle
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5110
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :---- | :----------------- | :------------- |
| 1     | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) NGC-5139   |
| 2     | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) NGC-5139   |

## ABSTRACT

As the largest and oldest coeval stellar populations, globular clusters (GCs) trace the origin of chemical abundances in the Galaxy and offer unique insight into the properties of ancient metal-poor stars. The long-held notion of chemical homogeneity among cluster members has been firmly ruled out by two decades of space-based photometry that revealed complex color-magnitude diagrams (CMDs), displaying multiple populations (mPOPs) of stars with distinct compositions. The enrichment mechanism responsible for this phenomenon remains uncertain, in part, because most GC studies have been restricted to bright main sequence or giant stars. We propose to use JWST in direct-imaging mode with NIRCam and NIRISS to obtain high-precision photometry and astrometry of the faintest objects in omega Centauri (NGC 5139) – the most massive GC that may host as many as 15 sub-populations. We intend to explore the transition in the CMD between stars fusing Hydrogen and non-fusing brown dwarfs (BDs). Observations of BDs will provide precise ages and compositions for individual sub-populations as well as probe the hypothetical dependence of abundances on the stellar mass, allowing direct tests of various mPOPs formation theories. The new data will be also used for calibrating metal-poor models of BDs, thus serving as a 'Rosetta-stone' between the poorly understood physics of low-temperature atmospheres and reliable measurements of chemical abundances in higher-mass stars. In addition, the proposed program will be sensitive to the entire white dwarf (WD) cooling sequence, allowing the search for IR excess in WD colors as a signature of ancient planetary systems.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

In this program, we propose to use JWST in direct-imaging mode with NIRCam (and in parallel with NIRISS to obtain high-precision photometry and astrometry of the faintest objects within the massive globular cluster (GC): omega Centauri (NGC 5139).
We need to map a relatively large field of view to have a statistically significant number of expected white dwarfs (WDs), low mass Main-Sequence stars, and brown dwarfs (BDs), therefore we use NIRCam and in parallel NIRISS (the widest imagers on the JWST focal plane) as coordinated parallel observations.
As GC's members are completely lost in the mixture of objects in their foreground and background, astrometry is a fundamental part of this investigation, and we intend to probe both the astrometric and photometric capabilities of JWST in this program. Multiple dithered images each with relatively high S/N are necessary to provide a number of inter-comparisons of detectors' regions to calibrate (or to correct for residual in) the geometric distortion of the camera, the spatial and temporal variability of the PSFs, and the local photometric zero points.
We will take advantage as much as possible of existing archival HST/ACS/WFC/F814W deep images (from GO-14118 and GO-14662) to have a first epoch enable to separate members stars from field objects in background and foreground of the target GC, however only the WDCS were observed completely. We will also use, at their full potential, the IR images available in WFC3/IR/F110W + F160W collected as parallel fields under the same HST programs, although much shallower than the IR JWST observations here proposed, but nevertheless the space-based deepest IR images available.
To get some proper motion information for BDs, which are undetected in HST archival data, we have split our observations in two halfes that will be taken about 1 year apart. One in F322W2 and one in F444W. Not only this provide a color information for the coolest BDs. but also distinguis them from the much faster local BDs in the Galactic field, and with respect to stationary background far away galaxies.
Precise and accurate astrometry, will not only be used for proper-motion cluster memberships, but it will be used also for analyses of the GC internal kinematics (such investigations are beyond Gaia's capabilities, as the stars too red & faint and in crowded environments).
We have chosen the JWST NIRCAM ultra-wide in two filter-pairs: (F150W2,F322W2) and (F090W,F444W), which can be used for simultaneous observations. The first pair for the large throughput suitable for deep observations of old cool faint WDs and BDs; the second pair to enable highest angular resolution and astrometric precision (F090W) of all MS stars and WDs and to get a second epoch for BDs (F444W). We also plan to have NIRISS parallel images in two filters and with a time baseline of~1yr_to increase the field coverage.