---
id: 5114
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging  NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Elena Sabbi  Co-PIs: Peter Zeidler"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "24.24/0.0"
program_title: "Tracing the evolution of circumstellar and protoplanetary disks at low metallicity"
type: "GO"
---
# 5114 - Tracing the evolution of circumstellar and protoplanetary disks at low metallicity
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5114
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label             | Observing Template | Science Target                   |
| :---------------- | :----------------- | :------------------------------- |
| N159-OFF NIRCam   | NIRCam Imaging     | (7) OFF-FIELD-NIRCam             |
| N159 NIRCam       | NIRCam Imaging     | (5) LHA-120-N-159-NIRCam         |
| N159S NIRCam      | NIRCam Imaging     | (9) LHA-120-N-159S-NIRCam        |
| N159-MIRI         | MIRI Imaging       | (8) LHA-120-N-159-MIRI           |
| N159-MIRI         | MIRI Imaging       | (10) LHA-120-N-159-MIRI-12.2-repeat |
| N159S-MIRI        | MIRI Imaging       | (6) LHA-120-N-159S-MIRI          |
| N159-OFF MIRI     | MIRI Imaging       | (4) OFF-FIELD-MIRI               |
| N159-OFF MIRI     | MIRI Imaging       | (4) OFF-FIELD-MIRI               |

---

## ABSTRACT

The interaction between pre-supernova FUV feedback from massive OB stars and radiation from the host stars plays a crucial, albeit not yet fully characterized, role in the evolution of the interstellar medium and circumstellar disks, as well as in the ability of low-mass stars to retain planetary systems. The synergy between NIRCam and MIRI observations finally offers us the opportunity to advance the study of the rapid (< 3 Myr) evolution of young stellar objects and pre-main sequence stars' disks in extragalactic star-forming regions.

Our neighboring low-metallicity galaxy, the Large Magellanic Cloud, hosts the well-studied giant HII complex N159, which comprises three giant molecular clouds at various evolutionary stages. This system serves as a particularly rare example of the transition from an embedded region at the onset of high-mass star formation to a region where pre-supernova feedback has already begun to clear the natal molecular cloud, revealing massive star clusters. N159 provides a unique window for witnessing the full evolution of a giant molecular cloud under the influence of emerging star formation in conditions significantly different from those observed in the Milky Way. We have, therefore, the opportunity to document how the progressively increasing stellar feedback affects the evolution of protoplanetary disks and the properties of the ISM at low metallicity, as the FUV radiation from O and B stars clears the surrounding natal material.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We request observations of the N159 complex in the Large Magellanic Clouds with NIRCam and MIRI.

For NIRCam we will use the broad, medium and narrowband filters F115W, F140M, F187N, F210M, F212N, F300M, F335M, F360M, F460M, and F470N to characterize the photosphere of young stellar objects and low-mass pre-main sequence stars.

We will use a 2x3 mosaic with 70% overlap in columns to fill the detector gap and maximize the exposure time.

For MIRI we will use a 1x4 mosaic to cover N159 East and West. A second 1x2 mosaic will be used to cover N159S. We will refine the column shift once the observing .window is defined, to maximize the covered area.

In addition we will collect observations with NIRCam and MIRI off the molecular ridge, for statistic decontamination.