---
id: 5118
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging  MIRI/LRS  NIRSpec/FS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Adam Schneider"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "7.49/0.0"
program_title: "Fundamental Properties and Formation Pathways of an Extremely Cold Companion"
type: "GO"
---
# 5118 - Fundamental Properties and Formation Pathways of an Extremely Cold Companion
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5118
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label             | Observing Template              | Science Target      |
| :---------------- | :------------------------------ | :------------------ |
| NIRSPec PRISM     | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (2) Ross19B-update  |
| MIRI LRS          | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) Ross19B         |
| NIRSPec 395H      | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (2) Ross19B-update  |
| MIRI Imaging      | MIRI Imaging                    | (1) Ross19B         |

## ABSTRACT

Cold substellar companions to nearby stars are rare but extremely valuable benchmarks for testing formation, evolutionary, and interior models. These objects also give us the opportunity to gain key insights into the chemistry of low-temperature atmospheres akin to those of cold, extrasolar giant planets. A wide-separation (~10") substellar companion to the nearby (~17.5 pc) M dwarf Ross 19 has been identified. This system represents a compelling laboratory for investigating how age, metallicity, and formation mechanism affect the emergent features of substellar atmospheres at extremely cold temperatures. Different formation models for planetary and brown dwarf companions suggest that the atmospheric elemental abundances should be different depending on the mechanism. We propose a combination of NIRSpec and MIRI spectroscopy and photometry to 1) measure the fundamental properties (e.g., bolometric luminosity and effective temperature) to the highest precisions possible for an extremely cold brown dwarf, and 2) constrain this benchmark companion's origin by probing the atmospheric chemistry unique to different formation pathways.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This program will obtain a full spectral energy distribution and investigate the complex chemistry of the exceptionally cold companion Ross 19B in order to measure fundamental properties and investigate this object's formation mechanism. We propose to acquire NIRSpec G395H spectra along with low resolution MIRI and NIRSpec LRS spectra. The G395H grating covers the peak of the flux for our target where the chemical makeup of the target can be examined. The NIRSpec and MIRI LRS data along with a few MIRI photometric data points will allow us to calculate a bolometric luminosity anchoring all observations with this fundamental observed parameter.