---
id: 5119
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Yoshihisa Asada  Co-PIs: Marcin Sawicki"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "24.01/0.0"
program_title: "Resolving galaxy building blocks at high-z: the comprehensive picture of internal physical properties in an ultra-low-mass major merger system at z=5.2"
type: "GO"
---
# 5119 - Resolving galaxy building blocks at high-z: the comprehensive picture of internal physical properties in an ultra-low-mass major merger system at z=5.2
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5119
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                                   | Observing Template          | Science Target   |
| :-------------------------------------- | :-------------------------- | :--------------- |
| NIRSpec IFU obs of E LG1+ELG2 system | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) ELG1+ELG2 |

---

## ABSTRACT

In the hierarchical picture of structure formation, galaxies are expected to grow through successive mergers. Hierarchical galaxy growth has been well studied in the low-z universe, and it is now possible to study this assembly process in its early stages at high-z with JWST. We propose a NIRSpec/IFU observation of a gravitationally lensed, galaxy merger system of two ultra-low-mass galaxies at z=5.2. Although the two galaxies are only Log(M/Msun)~6.9 and intrinsically small, thanks to the high lensing magnification (~x20), this merging system is spatially resolved and can be investigated in detail with JWST. We will obtain all the key rest-optical emission lines of Hbeta, Hgamma, [OIII]4959/5007, [OIII]4363, [NeIII]3867, and [OII]3727, aiming at mapping the spatially resolved interstellar medium properties down to ~40 pc scale and revealing the velocity field in this merging system. Combined with previous observations, this observation will enable us to derive the comprehensive picture of the internal structure within an ultra-low-mass galaxy merger system at high-z for the first time. This will include spatial maps of young stars, old stars and ionized gas, metallicity, and dust, and will let us unambiguously reveal how galaxy mergers govern low-mass galaxy evolution in the early stages of galaxy assembly.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose a NIRSpec/IFU spectroscopy of a gravitationally lensed lowest-mass merger system at z=5.2 using G235M/F170LP. We request 24.01 hours observation including overheads, in order to detect all the emission lines of Hbeta, Hgamma, [OIII]4959/5007, [OIII]4363, [OII]3727, and [NeIII]3867 from this system. We will use NRSIRS2 readout pattern given the long exposure time. We also use 8-point large CYCLE dither pattern to have enough dithers to obtain a robust background sky spectrum and to resample datacube with a smaller pixel scale. We will have enough spaxels free from contamination and can obtain the background spectrum from them. We will observe the target with 20 groups for an integration, and requires 6 integrations per each exposure to achieve the requested sensitivity.