---
id: 5141
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/LRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Kathleen Kraemer"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "2.94/0.0"
program_title: "The Fornax Planetary Nebula - an LRS Pilot Study"
type: "GO"
---
# 5141 - The Fornax Planetary Nebula - an LRS Pilot Study
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5141
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label      | Observing Template            | Science Target   |
| :--------- | :---------------------------- | :--------------- |
| FornaxPN   | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) FORNAXPN     |

---

## ABSTRACT

Our goal is to characterize the Fornax planetary nebula (PN). This PN is the only one known within the Fornax Dwarf Galaxy and was the most distant PN observed with the Infrared Spectrometer (IRS) on Spitzer. The rarity of PNe known in Local Group dwarf galaxies means we have few options to characterize the stellar ejecta with which these objects are enriching their hosts. This makes it essential to study the few that are know in order to understand their stellar populations and better inform the models of distant, unresolvable galaxies. The PN is so faint, though, that while hints of spectral features can be seen in the IRS spectrum, it was too noisy to analyze. The high sensitivity of the Low Resolution Spectrometer (LRS) on JWST's MIRI makes it the ideal instrument for this study, requiring less than 3 hours to complete.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This project will use MIRI's LRS to observe the Fornax Planetary Nebula. For Target Acquistion, we use self-TA with the Fast readout mode. With the F1000W filter, 4 Groups give the needed SNR for TA. This source is faint, so we need 360 groups, 3 integrations per exposure, and Dither with the Along Slit Nod setting. According to the ETC (132790), this will give us the required SNR of >100 for 5-11.5um and 20-50 to the end of the LRS band.