---
id: 5145
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Adam Smercina"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "65.39/44.4"
program_title: "Resolving the Global Stellar Populations and Star Formation History of the Starburst Galaxy M82"
type: "GO"
---
# 5145 - Resolving the Global Stellar Populations and Star Formation History of the Starburst Galaxy M82
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5145
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                     | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :------------------------ | :----------------- | :------------- |
| M82-Mosaic                | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) M82        |
| M82-Mosaic Copy of Tile-14 | NIRCam Imaging     | (2) M82-Tile-14 |

## ABSTRACT

We propose a NIRCam imaging survey of the nearby starburst galaxy, M82. As the prototypical massive starburst, which is also engaged in the nearest major galaxy interaction in the universe, M82 is a galaxy evolutionary laboratory. Imaging M82's disk out to R~8 kpc, we will for the first time break through its horrific line-of-sight dust extinction to reveal the bulk of its luminous stellar population, which are uniquely accessible with JWST. We will resolve at least 10 million individual stars across M82's disk, generating a stellar catalog that will have a lasting legacy value to the astrophysical community for decades. The key science goals of this proposal are to: measure M82's globally resolved star formation history over at least the past 6 Gyr, including the evolution of its recent starburst; map the metallicity of its stellar populations; and constrain dynamical models of its interaction history in the M81 Group. These will inform our understanding of starbursts and their winds, major mergers as drivers of galaxy evolution, and stellar evolution in high-metallicity, starbursting environments. The multiple filters, combined with rich archival data and parallel NIRISS imaging, will allow abundant future breakthrough science, including on star cluster populations, dusty evolved stars, high-resolution mapping of dust in and above the disk, stellar spectroscopy, and M82's stellar halo. The exposure times of 6356s in F115W/F356W and 4638s in F150W/F444W will reach the Red Clump feature at all spatial positions and for all extinction values in the disk, except for the crowded central 1 kpc. The scientific impact of this 65 hour investment by JWST will be felt for years.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This program is organized into two 3x5 pointing NIRCam imaging mosaics, 15 visits total, with the following filter combinations and exposure times:

1) F115W (SW) / F335M (LW): 8 groups per integration
2) F150W (SW) / F444W (LW): 6 groups per integration

Each visit is composed of 4 standard subpixel dithers, using the INTRAMODULEBOX pattern, which sufficiently covers the detector gaps in each array, provides excellent PSF sampling, and results in robust cosmic ray rejection. Given the exposure time requirements for our observations, we adopt a DEEP readout patter. Specifically, DEEP8 was chosen to protect against cosmic ray hits by allowing higher frame averaging (per the JWST User Documentation). Due to the 44" gap between the A and B arrays, we adopt a 60% overlap fraction between columns in the pointing mosaic, in order to eliminate these gaps across the entire survey footprint. We adopt a small 5% overlap between rows, making sure that all exposures overlap slightly to ensure contiguous depth across the footprint.

We impose two observational constraints: (1) a relatively tight range in PA of the mosaics, to ensure placement along M82's major axis, and (2) the condition that all observations must be taken with the same PA.

We also request coordinated parallel NIRISS imaging, observing in the F115W filter paired with NIRCam F115W/F335M, and F150W with F150W/F444W, and applying the NIRCam 4-point dither pattern. For the NIRISS imaging, we adopt an NIS readout pattern, and to keep exposure times within, but close to, the NIRCam exposures, we adopt the following exposure strategy:

1) F115W: 18 groups/integration with 2 integrations/exposure
2) F150W: 13 groups/integration with 2 integrations/exposure