---
id: 5168
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/LRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Karl Gordon"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "12.47/0.0"
program_title: "First Direct Measurements of Interstellar Silicate Dust in the Magellanic Clouds"
type: "GO"
---
# 5168 - First Direct Measurements of Interstellar Silicate Dust in the Magellanic Clouds
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5168
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label      | Observing Template            | Science Target     |
| :--------- | :---------------------------- | :----------------- |
| AzV 456    | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) AZV-456        |
| AzV 18     | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) AZV-18         |
| AzV 23     | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) AZV-23         |
| AzV 175    | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) AZV-175        |
| AzV 210    | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (5) AZV-210        |
| SK-67 2    | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (6) SK--67-2       |
| SK-68 26   | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (7) SK--68-26      |
| SK-68 129  | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (8) SK--68-129     |
| SK-70 79   | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (9) SK--70-79      |
| SK-69 270  | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (10) SK--69-270    |
| SK-70 116  | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (11) SK--70-116    |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose to measure the 10 micron silicate extinction feature for a sample of 11 sightlines in the Large and Small Magellanic Clouds that show large variations in dust composition as probed by their ultraviolet extinction properties. These measurements will be the first direct measurements of the properties of interstellar silicates in the diffuse ISM at metallicities below solar. We will investigate the variation in the strength, central wavelength, width, and asymmetry of the feature and compare to variations seen in the Milky Way. Combined with existing ultraviolet observations we will probe the silicate-to-carbonaceous dust ratio and test the importance of Asymptopic Giant Branch stars for dust formation as a function of metallicity. In addition, comparisons to silicate grain models will constrain shapes, Mg-to-Fe content, and oxidization of the grains. Combining this work with existing UV extinction measurements for the same sightlines will provide empirical average extinction curves at two different metallicities from the ultraviolet through the mid-infrared enabling all to account for the effects of dust on observations of lower than solar metallicity targets.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The proposed observations are to obtain 5-14 micron spectra of 11 sightlines in the Large and Small Magellanic Clouds using the MIRI Low Resolution Spectrometer (LRS). These are observations of point sources using the standard 2 nod dither pattern.