---
id: 5177
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Renyu Hu"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "24.99/0.0"
program_title: "Detailed Atmospheric Characterization of a Unique Low-Temperature Exo-Saturn"
type: "GO"
---
# 5177 - Detailed Atmospheric Characterization of a Unique Low-Temperature Exo-Saturn
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5177
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template            | Science Target   |
|-------|-------------------------------|------------------|
| 1     | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) CD-60-1144   |

## ABSTRACT

Astronomers have learned a great deal about the atmospheres of hot extrasolar Jupiters and Saturns using ground-based, HST, Spitzer, and JWST observations. These planets are however in very different atmospheric circulation and chemistry regimes than their solar-system counterparts, and so far, there lacks an extrasolar analog of Jupiter or Saturn where we could test the basic theories of giant planet atmospheres. Here we identify TOI-199 b, a 350-K, Saturn-sized planet orbiting a G star, as a highly favorable target for detailed atmospheric characterization via transmission spectroscopy. We propose to observe one transit of the planet using NIRSpec/G395M. With a TSM of>100 and a long transit duration of nearly 8 hours, the observation will result in exquisite photometric precision and precisely constrain the abundances of H2O, CH4, NH3, HCN, CO2, and CO in the planet's atmosphere. This unprecedented information will not only determine the atmospheric metallicity and C/O ratio, but also assess whether the vertical mixing in the planet's atmosphere is closer to the Jupiter regime or the hot Jupiter regime, and if the planet has a Jupiter-like vertical mixing, constrain the photochemical production mechanisms of HCN. The constraints on the metallicity and vertical mixing will also determine the fraction of nitrogen as NH3 (or indirectly as HCN), leading to a comprehensive picture of the planet's C, N, and O inventories. This program pushes the frontier of exoplanet characterization to low-temperature planets and advances the understanding of atmospheric physics and chemistry in unique planetary environments.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will observe one transit of TOI-199 b using NIRSpec/BOTS/G395M, acquiring the planet's transmission spectrum in 2.8 – 5.2 microns. We choose the number of groups (Ngroup=7) to avoid saturation and maximize the efficiency of the observations. Due to the brightness of the star, we perform target acquisition (TA) on a nearby infrared source with precise position and proper motion from Gaia DR3.
As is recommended for exoplanet transit observations, we include an out-of-transit portion of the light curve that lasts 1.5 times the transit duration (7.9 hours) and splits evenly before and after the transit. The out-of-transit observation is necessary to establish a baseline from which the transit depth can be determined and using which instrumental systematics can be modeled. Additionally, since any timing constraint narrower than 1 hour is considered "tight” and incurs a 1-hour scheduling overhead penalty, we use a timing window of exactly 1 hour, centered at 30 min (scheduling flexibility) + out-of-transit-duration/2 minutes before the predicted start of the transit. The exposure time is 2.5 times the transit duration plus 1 hour, which totals 20.8 hours.
The planet has an orbital period of 105 days and we have confirmed with APT that there are 3 schedulable events during Cycle 3. The planet has a transit timing variation of up to ~30 minutes, possibly caused by a non-transiting outer planet. We choose to not specify additional scheduling constraints, and the 30-min uncertainty in the transit timing has no impact on achieving the proposed science given the total exposure time of 20.8 hours.