---
id: 5191
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Elsa Ducrot  Co-PIs: Pierre-Olivier Lagage"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "23.31/0.0"
program_title: "Bare rocks are not supposed to do that"
type: "GO"
---
# 5191 - Bare rocks are not supposed to do that
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5191
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :---- | :----------------- | :------------- |
| Visit1 | MIRI Imaging       | (1) TRAPPIST-1 |
| Visit2 | MIRI Imaging       | (1) TRAPPIST-1 |
| Visit3 | MIRI Imaging       | (1) TRAPPIST-1 |
| Visit4 | MIRI Imaging       | (1) TRAPPIST-1 |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose to elucidate the origin of several puzzling observations relative to the thermal fluxes of TRAPPIST-1 b and c in the mid-infrared. Recent observations of five secondary eclipses of TRAPPIST-1 b and a partial eclipse of c in the F1280W band have revealed two puzzling findings:

*   During one visit, JWST recorded a partial eclipse of TRAPPIST-1 c with an unexpectedly large occultation depth, contradicting previous 15microns measurements and equilibrium temperature predictions.
*   Brightness variations between visits during the five TRAPPIST-1 b eclipses, not seen at 15 microns, suggest intriguing potential origin such as star-planet interactions through photochemistry or outgassing.

To solve both these mysteries at once and save telescope time, we propose to observe four eclipses of TRAPPIST-1 b and c one after the other during the same visits, requiring a total of 23.3 hours. This proposal is key to unraveling the TRAPPIST-1 innermost planets' internal heating and atmospheric characteristics, and will have major implications for the system's outer, potentially habitable planets.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Our observations consist of time series photometry during four eclipses of the planets TRAPPIST-1 c and TRAPPIST-1 b, that we will time in the same visits. For each eclipse, the observations will be performed with the MIRI Imaging F1500W filter using the FASTR1 read-out mode and the MIRI SUB256 subarray to maximize groups per integration. These observations must be executed in a continuous sequence. Each of the four visits must be timed to coincide with eclipses of the the two planets and such that they append within enough time from each other to provide adequate baselines (minimum of 42 minutes between the egress of the first eclipse and the ingress of the second eclipse). We have reported several observing windows over the Cycle 3 period that fulfill these criteria (6 possible windows but only 4 required).