---
id: 5192
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Manuela Bischetti  Co-PIs: Hyunseop Choi"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "7.1/0.0"
program_title: "The first multi-scale and multi-phase characterization of black hole feedback at z>6"
type: "GO"
---
# 5192 - The first multi-scale and multi-phase characterization of black hole feedback at z>6
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5192
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label             | Observing Template        | Science Target |
| :---------------- | :------------------------ | :------------- |
| IFU J0923+0402    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (1) J0923+0402 |

## ABSTRACT

Bright quasars at z > 6 are powered by rapidly accreting supermassive black holes that lie above the local black hole (BH)-galaxy mass correlation. Simulations predict that these BHs at redshifts around 6-7 release strong radiation and power energetic winds, regulating both BH and galaxy evolution. Recent near-infrared surveys reveal that up to 50% of quasars at z>6 show evidence for BH-driven winds through broad absorption lines (BAL) in rest-frame UV spectra, indicating the importance of winds in regulating both black hole and host-galaxy growth in the early universe. Here we propose to target with JWST/NIRSpec IFU a z~6.6 quasar with multi-phase detection of a BH-driven outflow and a robust measurement of the outflow energetics, both on 10-100 pc and on ~2 kpc scale. Strong AlIII and MgII absorption lines provided excellent constraints on the energetics of the nuclear wind, consistent with >10% of the quasa luminosity. ALMA observationsalso discovered the presence of a powerful, galaxy scale cold gas outflow. The excellent sensitivity and spatial resolution of the JWST/NIRSpec will allow us to map the galaxy-scale ionized outflow, the distribution of dust, and the unobscured star-formation in the quasar host using the rest-optical emission line diagnostics (e.g., [OIII], Ha, [NII], Hb). We will also probe the ionized counterpart of the 10 kpc, cold gas halo detected by ALMA. The outcome of this proposal will provide the first multi-phase, multi-scale characterization of a BH-driven outflow at z>6 and its impact on galaxy and circumgalactic scales.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose JWST/NIRpec IFU observations of a Lo-BAL quasar at z~6.6, to map emission from the quasar host-galaxy with an angular resolution of~0.11 arcsec, corresponding to about 600-700 pc, up to a distance of ~10 kpc from the quasar. The high resolution G395H disperser in the F290LP filter is requested to cover nebular emission lines in the Hbeta-[OIII] and Halpha-[NII]-[SII] spectral regions, with a spectral resolution of ~100 km/s.
To improve the spatial sampling of the JWST PSF, we require a 9 point cycling dither to improve the PSF. We also require a short MSA leakage exposure to filtter MSA contamination from bright sources. We do not include background exposures, as we verified that a medium/high background level does not significantly affecs the S/N of emission lines, given the requested spectral setup. We use the NRSIRS2 readout pattern to reduce correlated detector noise and improve the identification and removal of cosmic rays.
The request of 4.6 hrs of on-source time is driven by the need of detecting and accurately mapping the wing component of the [OIII]5007A emission line. Specifically, we request a S/N∼5-7 over one third of the width of the [OIII] wing, for a binned region of 0.24x0.24 arcsec2. This will allow us to map the morphology and kinematics of the [OIII] wing in ~14 independent spatial regions.