---
id: 5204
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Mary Anne Limbach  Co-PIs: Ryan MacDonald and Andrew Vanderburg"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "4.43/0.0"
program_title: "Probing the Dynamical History and the Mid-IR SED of WD 1856b"
type: "GO"
---
# 5204 - Probing the Dynamical History and the Mid-IR SED of WD 1856b
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5204
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :---- | :----------------- | :------------- |
|       | MIRI Imaging       | (1) LP-141-14  |
|       | MIRI Imaging       | (1) LP-141-14  |

**Note:** The "Label" column in the provided "OBSERVATIONS" table is empty for both entries.

## ABSTRACT

The WD 1856 system hosts the only known transiting exoplanet around a white dwarf, WD 1856 b, a gas giant with an orbital separation of 0.02 AU. Recent NIRSpec observations of WD 1856 b have presented a perplexing and unexpected outcome. The observations provide further evidence that the exoplanet candidate is likely in the planetary mass regime, while conversely finding it has a temperature far above what is expected for the estimated age and mass of this planet. This mystery can most readily be solved by obtaining a better understanding of the exoplanet's dynamical history. There are currently two possible explanations for WD 1856 b's arrival at its current location, either common-envelope evolution or high eccentricity migration. If the latter is responsible for the planet's migration to its current location, then there is likely a higher mass planet in the WD 1856 system that kicked it in. We propose an efficient MIRI direct imaging + common proper motion program to search for additional exoplanets in this system to constrain the migration mechanism of WD 1856 b. Additionally, WD 1856 b outshines its host star in the mid-IR, and the proposed observations will provide the first flux measurement of this exoplanet in the mid-IR from 5-25 microns via IR excess in the blended white dwarf+ planet SED, allowing for improved characterization of the planet's spectrum and physical parameters. In particular, the observations will probe the emission temperature, atmospheric C/H ratio and disequilibrium chemistry of the exoplanet.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We request 4.4 hours of MIRI imaging observations to (1) search for additional exoplanets in this system, and (2) measure the infrared excess due to the known unresolved exoplanet orbiting the white dwarf WD 1856+534. We will use a 4-point cycling dither pattern to mitigate bad pixel effects. We will image the system at 2 epochs separated by >320 days (proper motion is 247 mas/yr, corresponds to >2 pixels of motion between epochs). Epoch 1 imaging filters: F560W, F770W, F1000W, F1130W, F1280W, F1550W and F1800W. Epoch 2 imaging filters: F1550W and F1800W. This measurement should NOT be conducted during a transit or eclipse event in the system. Transit and eclipse times are predicted using an updated ephemeris listed in the scientific justification and given as a special constraint. The transit and eclipse duration are 8 minutes and occur every 16.9 hours.