---
id: 5221
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/WFSS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Maria Pudoka  Co-PIs: Feige Wang"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "12.86/0.0"
program_title: "Mapping Cosmic Structure Evolution: Characterizing Two Massive Galaxy Protoclusters Anchored by z>7.5 Luminous Quasars"
type: "GO"
---
# 5221 - Mapping Cosmic Structure Evolution: Characterizing Two Massive Galaxy Protoclusters Anchored by z>7.5 Luminous Quasars
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5221
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :---- | :---------------------------------- | :---------------- |
| J0313 | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (1) J0313-1806 |

---

## ABSTRACT

Structure formation models predict that the earliest billion-M_sun supermassive black holes must form in the most massive dark matter halos and can therefore be anchors of protoclusters in the Epoch of Reionization. We propose to study the environments of the two most high-redshift quasars (z>7.5) using a mosaic of NIRCam/WFSS to search for [OIII] emitters at the quasar redshifts. Both quasars show strong evidence of residing in large-scale overdense environments based on photometric selection of Lyman break galaxies using JWST NIRCam multiband imaging. However, the existing data is limited by: (1) a single pointing of NIRCam that cannot cover the full extent of protoclusters, and (2) broad-band photometric selections that do not probe the 3-D structure of the protoclusters. We will carry out NIRCam/WFSS mosaic observations that will cover 2.5 times the area of existing data, and measure precise redshifts that map the large-scale structure and kinematics of the protocluster member galaxies. We expect to confirm the spectroscopic redshifts of ~150 galaxies at z~7-9 and characterize the kinematics of ~50 galaxies in the close environments of these quasars in order to verify and characterize the properties of two of the most extreme high-z protoclusters anchored by quasars. These observations will allow us to calculate spatial clustering around z~7.5 to constrain dark matter halo mass, probe AGN activity in protocluster environments, and study galaxy formation and evolution in the most dense and active regions in the early universe.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We target the two highest redshift quasars known, J0313-1806 (z=7.64) and J1342+0928 (z=7.54). The targets have existing single-pointing NIRCam imaging observations used to establish photometric redshifts. In this program, we propose to use a 2x2 NIRCam/WFSS GrismR mosaic to cover a 2.5 times larger area than the current observations. We request (X_offset, Y_offset) = (-31, 0) arcsecond in order to ensure the quasar has a full wavelength coverage and is covered by all four visits of the mosaic. We choose to only use Grism R in order to reduce the overhead. The confusion issue due to spectral overlap will be resolved by using the Hbeta+O3 line complex. Such a strategy has been used by many JWST programs in Cycle 1 and Cycle 2.

We use the following configuration for NIRCam/WFSS observations: F444W filter for WFSS observations in the long wavelength channel and F200W filter for imaging observations in the short wavelength channel. We will use F150W+F444W for direct imaging and out-of-field imaging. We will use the MEDIUM2 readout pattern for the WFSS exposures with a 3-point INTRAMODULEX primary dither and a two-point sub-pixel dither which results in 6000s per pointing. We will use the SHALLOW4 readout pattern for the direct and out-of-field imaging. This results in a total science exposure time of 15.97 hours and a total charged time of 24.5 hours.