---
id: 5224
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 6
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Pascal Oesch  Co-PIs: Rohan Naidu"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "33.43/0.0"
program_title: "Mirage or Miracle? Spectroscopic Confirmation of Remarkably Luminous Galaxies at z>10"
type: "GO"
---
# 5224 - Mirage or Miracle? Spectroscopic Confirmation of Remarkably Luminous Galaxies at z>10
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5224
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label              | Observing Template              | Science Target                      |
| :----------------- | :------------------------------ | :---------------------------------- |
| mom0_prism         | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (6) grizli_v7.2.4_gaia_mom_pt0      |
| mom1_prism         | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (7) grizli_v7.2.4_gaia_mom_pt1      |
| mom-cosmos-pt0     | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (13) cosmos_im7.4_aw1.0_v1_pt0      |
| mom-cosmos-pt1     | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (14) cosmos_im7.4_aw1.0_v1_pt1      |
| mom-cosmos-pt2     | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (15) cosmos_im7.4_aw1.0_v1_pt2      |

---

## ABSTRACT

The first year of JWST has finally pushed our observational frontier beyond z~11, into the last unknown epoch of our cosmic timeline. Dozens of galaxy candidates have been reported at record-breaking redshifts, and some even spectroscopically confirmed. While this is exactly what JWST was built for, the large number of luminous Muv<-20 candidates barely a few hundred Myrs after the Big Bang continues to be one of the biggest surprises from early JWST data. These galaxies have excited the community -- *if* they are at z>10, they imply new ingredients are required in our galaxy formation models, and perhaps even cosmology. Despite the intense interest and large numbers of candidates, spectroscopic follow-up and confirmation is severely lagging behind. Only a handful of sources at Muv<-20 have so far been confirmed at z>~10. Here we propose the first systematic spectroscopic survey of luminous z>~10 galaxies that will definitively settle the number density and nature of this population. We will target a carefully selected sample of 15 sources that are found to have a ~10x higher number density than theoretical models predicted. Our observations will test whether these sources genuinely are at z>~10 or if they are new classes of interlopers that may be corrupting JWST's searches. At the same time, these spectra will provide detailed insights into the physics of luminous z>~10 galaxies through continuum slopes and rest-frame UV emission lines, which can constrain the presence of Pop-III stars, AGN, or globular cluster formation in action. These observations have immediate implications for the success of JWST to securely expand our horizon to cosmic dawn.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The primary goal of this program is to obtain 4.4hr deep NIRSpec/PRISM observations of luminous z>10 candidates to confirm or refute their high-redshift nature through continuum breaks. Additionally, we will measure emission lines for several z~5-9.5 galaxies selected from NIRCam imaging. No pre-imaging is required, as these sources all have been identified in the NIRCam images of key legacy fields, which were aligned to Gaia DR3.

NIRSpec exposures:
The observing strategy for the MSA consists of 3 nods in 3 slitlet slits, which we repeat 3 times. We are taking a series of 12 groups of integrations and 2 integrations per exposure with the NRSIRS2 readout mode, resulting in a total science time of 16019s, or 4.4hrs per mask. This same strategy will be repeated for each of our five masks -- three in the PRIMER/UDS field and two in the PRIMER/COSMOS field. Our tests show that we can target up to ~50 other galaxies in the epoch of reionization in addition to possibly 100 more lower redshift fillers in the field. The MSA mask design will be finalized once the VPA3 angle of JWST is assigned. We have no particular constraints and can safely avoid the micro meteorites.