---
id: 5226
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Elena Manjavacas  Co-PIs: Daniel Apai, Theodora Karalidi, Glenn Schneider, and Yifan Zhou"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "20.5/0.0"
program_title: "The Weather Forecast in a Cloudy (or not) Cool Planetary-Mass Brown Dwarf"
type: "GO"
---
# 5226 - The Weather Forecast in a Cloudy (or not) Cool Planetary-Mass Brown Dwarf
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5226
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                    | Observing Template               | Science Target |
| :----------------------- | :------------------------------- | :------------- |
| S1600A1, first rotation  | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) ROSS458C   |
| S1600A1, second rotation | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) ROSS458C   |

## ABSTRACT

Ross 458 c is a ~9 Jupiter mass, T8 spectral type brown dwarf that has similar mass and temperature to some cold directly-imaged exoplanets, like 51 Eri b, GJ 504 b, and GJ 758 b. Due to the high separation between Ross 458 c and its host stars, and to the proximity of the system, it is possible to obtain high signal-to-noise spectra for this exoplanet couterpart using JWST/NIRSpec. We propose to perform prism spectroscopy during two full

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Based on previous HST/WFC3 observations (e.g. Apai et al. 2013, Yang et al. 2015, Lew et al. 2016, Manjavacas et al. 2018, 2019) high signal-to-noise spectra, high cadence, and high stability are the keys to successfully detect intrinsic spectro-photometric variability for brown dwarfs and isolated planetary-mass objects. Since Ross 458 c is relatively bright (JUKIDSS=16.69±0.01), we propose to use the BOTS (Bright Object Time-Series) observing mode, that uses the 1.6" x 1.6" fixed slit aperture (S1600A1). This mode is optimized for exoplanet transit observations requiring stable observing conditions and high photometric precision time-series spectroscopy, which are the same conditions that we require to satisfactory detect few percent of spectro-photometric variability amplitude, as measured previously for Ross 458 c with HST/WFC3 data. For the purpose of stability, no dithering is done in this observing mode. To obtain in one single exposure the entire 0.7-5.3 m spectrum, we propose to use the prism with the clear filter, that offers a resolution of ~100, sufficient to resolve the CH4 and H2O bands expected for Ross 458 c at across the entire wavelength range. We will use the SUB512 subarray for each exposure that reads a subarray of 512 x 32 pixels, and for the PRISM/CLEAR setting records the full wavelength range of the spectrum, but it will also read out extra unilluminated pixels for reference. We will use the NRSRAPID readout pattern, that saves a single frame. In total, to achieve a 0.7-5.3 m spectrum with a signal-to-noise between 50 for the continuum inside CH4 bands in the mid-infrared, and around 300 at the peak of the J-band. We aim at obtaining a minimum accuracy on the spectro-photometric variability of 0.1%, even inside the bands with less signal-to-noise. In particular, we need a signal-to-noise of 50 inside the CH4 band at 3.3 m, that will trace the upper levels of the atmosphere of Ross 458 c (see Fig. 2), providing information about heterogeneous clouds in the upper atmosphere, above ~0.1 bar. According to the ETC for JWST/NIRSpec, we need 357.74 s (~6 min) integrations to achieve a minimum signal-to-noise of 50 in a single Ross 458 c spectrum. We propose to observe using 100 groups per integration, 15 integrations per exposure, and 74 exposures per specification. We propose to monitor Ross 458 c consecutively during 7 hr that is the approximate rotation period estimated for the object using HST/WFC3 spectro-photometric data (6.75±1.58 hr, Manjavacas et al. 2019), doing 357.72 s (~6 min) consecutive integrations. In total, we will obtain 74 high signal-to-noise spectra of the object during the entire rotation period of Ross 458 c, that will allow us to produce the first tomography of the atmosphere of this exoplanet analog to cold directly-imaged exoplanets. Since Ross 458 c has a relatively high proper motion (Proper Motion RA: -616.31 mas/yr Proper Motion Dec: -13.59 mas/yr), we will need to perform target acquisition exposure at the beginning of the observation to determine the precise location of the target. We will use WATA, with the F110W filter, and the SUB2048, with a NRSRAPID readout pattern. The total integration time for target acquisition is ~4s.