---
id: 5229
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Coronagraphy  NIRCam/Coronagraphy"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Elisabeth Matthews  Co-PIs: Celia Desgrange"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "12.91/0.0"
program_title: "Super-Jupiters in our backyard: MIRI coronagraphic imaging of a massive planet/brown dwarf orbiting an M dwarf at 12pc"
type: "GO"
---
# 5229 - Super-Jupiters in our backyard: MIRI coronagraphic imaging of a massive planet/brown dwarf orbiting an M dwarf at 12pc
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5229
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                  | Observing Template           | Science Target             |
| :--------------------- | :--------------------------- | :------------------------- |
| BACKGROUND-REF         | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging   | (6) BACKGROUND-HD28343     |
| REF-GJ179-F1550C       | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging   | (7) HD28343-F1550C         |
| REF-GJ179-F444W        | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (2) HD28343-F444W          |
| GJ179-F444W            | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (1) GJ179-F444W            |
| GJ179-F1550C           | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging   | (3) GJ179-F1550C           |
| BACKGROUND-GJ17        | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging   | (5) BACKGROUND-GJ179       |

---

## ABSTRACT

We will directly detect a massive planet (>2MJ), or low-mass brown dwarf (<20MJ), orbiting the solar-age M dwarf GJ179. We will derive a luminosity and a dynamical mass, and perform a rare but important observational test of evolutionary models at old age and low mass. The detection will pave the way for detailed atmospheric characterization of a cold atmosphere, and JWST coronagraphic imaging is the only facility capable of detecting this object.

We will differentiate chemical equilibrium and non-equilibrium models of the target by combining NIRCam F444W and MIRI F1550C images, and differentiate true companions from backgrounds stars and galaxies with a high level of statistical certainty. The constraints on separation and apparent flux will also be crucial to design future spectroscopic campaigns using NIRSpec and the MIRI MRS. This will allow detailed atmospheric characterization campaigns - providing a rare opportunity to study the rich molecular chemistry of a cold atmosphere, and probe its formation and evolution.

GJ179 is an ideal target for this work. The system shows strong evidence of an outer planet, from a long-term RV trend and an astrometric acceleration. The host star is nearby (12pc), allowing for very deep absolute magnitudes to be reached; it is late-type (M3.5V), reducing the contrast between the star and a massive companion; it has a well-constrained age (5.0Gyr). Archival imaging with Keck/NIRC2 rules out companions >20MJ and hotter than 450K, but the RV trend confirms that the companion must be massive and widely separated, and detectable with JWST - paving the way to detailed atmospheric characterization of a cool, solar-age planet/brown dwarf.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will collect coronagraphic observations of GJ179 with both MIRI and NIRCam, so as to detect a massive companion seen in radial velocity and astrometric observations of the system.

For MIRI we will observe with filter F1550C and the FQPM coronagraph; for NIRCam we will observe in the dual-band mode, collecting both F200W and F444W observations with the 335R round mask in place. This provides the deepest sensitivity to planets, and a preliminary constraint on the companion atmospheric chemistry.

We will collect reference PSF observations for both the MIRI and NIRCam sequences. In both cases we chose HD28343 as a suitable reference star: it is ~2mag brighter than GJ179 (leading to efficient reference observations even with a dither pattern); is within 16 degrees of the science target; it appears to be single based on the literature and on Gaia noise statistics. We will collect these reference images with the 9pt dither pattern, to ensure optimal PSF reconstruction. We will also collect background observations near the science and reference targets for the MIRI observations, so as to subtract out the scattered light "glowstick" feature. All observations are included in a SEQ NON INT, to minimize the time baseline between science, reference and background stars, and optimise the removal of the stellar PSF and scattered light.

We will integrate in each filter for ~3600s, to optimize between deep detection limits and an efficient campaign. Our groups/integration and integrations/exposure are chosen based on the results of simulations with PanCAKE, and for the reference star are designed to match the detector flux of the science observations at each dither position.