---
id: 5232
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "MIRI/LRS  NIRSpec/FS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Lindsey Kwok"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "19.9/0.0"
program_title: "Getting Late Early: Mid-Infrared Spectroscopy of White Dwarf Supernovae"
type: "GO, Non-Disruptive ToO"
---
# 5232 - Getting Late Early: Mid-Infrared Spectroscopy of White Dwarf Supernovae
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5232
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label              | Observing Template                  | Science Target   |
| :----------------- | :---------------------------------- | :--------------- |
| LRS-Slit           | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy    | (1) SN2024PXL    |
| NIR G395M          | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy     | (1) SN2024PXL    |
| LRS-Slit           | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy    | (1) SN2024PXL    |
| NIR G395M          | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy     | (1) SN2024PXL    |
| LRS-Slit           | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy    | (1) SN2024PXL    |
| NIR G395M          | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy     | (1) SN2024PXL    |
| LRS-Slit           | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy    | (2) SN2025CY     |
| NIR G395M          | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy     | (2) SN2025CY     |
| LRS-Slit           | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy    | (2) SN2025CY     |
| NIR G395M          | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy     | (2) SN2025CY     |
| LRS-Slit           | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy    | (2) SN2025CY     |
| NIR G395M          | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy     | (2) SN2025CY     |
| LRS-Slit           | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy    | (3) SN2025IFQ    |
| NIR G395M          | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy     | (3) SN2025IFQ    |
| LRS-Slit           | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy    | (3) SN2025IFQ    |
| NIR G395M          | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy     | (3) SN2025IFQ    |
| LRS-Slit           | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy    | (3) SN2025IFQ    |
| NIR G395M          | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy     | (3) SN2025IFQ    |

---

## ABSTRACT

Type Ia supernovae (SN Ia) have enormous importance to cosmology and astrophysics, but we still lack a detailed understanding of their progenitor systems and explosion mechanisms. As a supernova expands over time, it enters the nebular phase where the ejecta become optically thin, allowing us to see interior layers and directly probe its composition, density, temperature, and kinematic structure. JWST observations have shown that nebular phase observations in MIR provide powerful constraints on models, including the density-dependent nucleosynthesis of intermediate mass elements, radioactive iron-group elements, and stable iron-group elements. In the MIR, supernovae transition to the nebular phase far earlier than they do in the optical, and their evolution during this early, rapid transition is expected to reveal unique MIR signatures that will differentiate between models. Here we propose to build a legacy, reference sample of JWST MIR spectra of white dwarf supernovae at early times, as they transition to the nebular phase, with non-disruptive target-of-opportunity observations. In addition to normal SN Ia, we will also observe the diversity of thermonuclear supernovae, including extreme and peculiar objects. Our data will open a new, unexplored window on the early MIR evolution of thermonuclear explosions, uniquely probing wavelengths where the ejecta quickly become optically thin, and strongly testing progenitor and explosion models. All data obtained will be made public immediately, with no exclusive access period.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will observe 6 target-of-opportunity white dwarf supernovae (WDSN) with 3 objects per cycle for 2 cycles. Each supernova will be observed in three epochs to measure the spectral evolution and disentangle radioactive and stable elements. All epochs consist of mid-infarared (MIRI) and near-infrared (NIRSpec) observations. For all observations, we will use the NIRSpec G395M grating and MIRI LRS to obtain spectroscopic coverage from 2.9 to 5 microns at medium resolution (R~1000) and 5 to 13 microns at low resolution (R ~ 100). These observations can target normal SN Ia out to 80 Mpc. The low-resolution MIR observations cover many important MIR emission lines of Ar, Co, and Ni; while the higher-resolution NIR data will cover an important [Ca IV] feature not accessible from the ground.

During the program we will trigger on WDSN from different classes, including normal SN Ia, extreme SN Ia (91bg/86G-like and 91T/99aa-lick objects), and peculiar objects (SN Iax, Ia-CSM, super-Chandra SN Ia, etc.) ensuring that the breadth of the thermonuclear supernova zoo is adequately represented in our sample, while still mainting a focus on SN Ia. We will trigger on objects that are discovered early (>10 days before maximum light), are well-positioned to be closely monitored by ground-based facilities in the optical and ground-based NIR, and nearby enough (with limiting distance depending on the specific type of object) to get adequate S/N to achieve our science goals.

Our early MIR observations spanning the transition to the nebular phase will be scheduled approximately +15, +30, and +50 days past maximum light for each supernova. With identification of supernova targets by 10 days before maximum, these will be non-disruptive TOOs that can be scheduled at least 3 weeks in advance. We will work with the WDSN community to identify the best targets, and all data collected in this program will be made publicly available immediately with no exclusive access period.