---
id: 5255
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Evan Skillman  Co-PIs: Kristen McQuinn"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "14.72/0.0"
program_title: "Defining the Dwarf Galaxy Reionization Transition Zone"
type: "GO"
---
# 5255 - Defining the Dwarf Galaxy Reionization Transition Zone
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5255
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label  | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :----- | :----------------- | :------------- |
| SagDIG | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) SagDIG     |

---

## ABSTRACT

The impact of reionization on galaxies is relatively well understood in a dichotomous sense: massive galaxies are not impacted by reionization and low-mass galaxies have their star formation terminally extinguished. Nonetheless, there is an intermediate regime where the star formation in relatively low-mass galaxies is impacted by heating during reionization but can recover and continue at a later date. We know of this "transition zone" from recovered star formation histories of three nearby isolated currently star-forming galaxies. With JWST we can add a fourth galaxy to this sample (SagDIG) which has only shallow HST photometry primarily due to high foreground extinction. Post-reionization re-ignited star formation in dwarf galaxies has implications for cosmological simulations. Specifically, if delayed star formation is typical for lower galaxy masses, this would significantly impact the interpretation that low-mass galaxies are engines of reionization and, thus, our expectations of the high-redshift galaxy UV luminosity function. JWST observations of SagDIG will help us to better understand this important galaxy mass regime with regard to the effects of reionization.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will image SagDIG with NIRCam with the short-wavelength filters F090W and F150W, with simultaneous imaging in the long-wavelength filters F250M and F480M. Our science goals require that the SW imaging reach below the old main sequence turn-off with a SNR~10 for a metal-poor, 13 Gyr old star. We have used a MEDIUM8 readout and a subpixel dither pattern to mitigate cosmic rays and bad pixels, improve PSF sampling, and reduce flat-field errors thereby maximizing the SNR. We do not intend to cover the chip gaps as uniform depth is preferred for the imaged stellar field. We have selected 8 groups per integration, 2 integrations, and 12 dithers per filter. A total science time of ~11 hrs is needed to achieve our photometric depth requirement. Total requested time with overhead from the APT is ~14 hours. We impose a background limited constraint of 10% as the background is highly variable in this region of the sky. We selected additional orient constaints to ensure the NIRCam field of view optimally covers the stellar disk of the galaxy while avoiding any bright nearby stars.