---
id: 5261
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Coronagraphy"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Haochang Jiang"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "7.67/0.0"
program_title: "Confirming the youngest gap-opening protoplanet undergoing runaway gas accretion"
type: "GO"
---
# 5261 - Confirming the youngest gap-opening protoplanet undergoing runaway gas accretion
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5261
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                     | Observing Template             | Science Target   |
| :------------------------ | :----------------------------- | :--------------- |
| SW_Pa_alpha               | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (1) MWC480       |
| SW_cont                   | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (1) MWC480       |
| PSF_calibrator_Pa_alpha   | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (2) HD31234      |
| PSF_calibrator_cont       | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (2) HD31234      |

## ABSTRACT

We propose to confirm an accreting protoplanet candidate in MWC 480 disk. This candidate has been recently detected with Subaru SCExAO/VAMPIRES H-alpha imaging observations. Situated within a prominent dust continuum gap ~0.4" from the host, this candidate spatially coincides with a group of carbon-rich molecular line-emission rings observed by ALMA. These configurations are consistent with the chemical footprint of a hot accreting planet, which triggers the release of C-rich ice into the gas phase inside the dust gap.

To independently confirm this candidate, we propose to observe the Pa-alpha emission line from the accreting planet / circumplanetary disk with the F187N filter and M210R mask on NIRCam. This is a unique target for this scientific case, and JWST is the only facility capable of measuring the Pa-alpha emission which ground-based facilities cannot due to the opaque atmosphere.

Successful confirmation of the planet will mark a unique detection of a gap-opening protoplanet still undergoing the so-called runaway gas accretion. This is different from the previously detected 'low' accreting super Jupiter protoplanets in the large cavity of PDS 70, which will put the candidate robustly as the youngest planet that can be directly detected. It would present as a Rosetta stone to guide observational studies and vastly improve our theoretical understanding of giant planet formation and planet-disk interactions.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This program aims to validate the presence of a protoplanet candidate within MWC 480, by redetecting the planetary accretion signal through the Pa-alpha line. This unique scientific task can only be accomplished using the F187N filter on NIRCam, an exclusive capability provided by JWST.

We will take NIRCam coronagraphic observations with the F187N filters to observe the Pa-alpha emission line from the planet and with the F182M filter to observe any potential disk feature, which enables continuum-line subtraction and ensures that we can distinguish the planet signal from the disk scatter-light feature. In order to achieve the highest throughput at the protoplanet location, and ensure coronagraphic imaging with the smallest feasible inner working angle, we will use the M210R mask. As a by-product, we will simultaneously collect F335M observations, which hold the potential to detect the thermal continuum emissions from the circumplanetary disk. The small separation of the candidate prohibits us from using 2-rolls Angular Differential Imaging. Hence, we will rely on Reference Differential Imaging to remove the starlight and reveal the planet.

The successful detection of planetary accretion line emissions from two distinct facilities will provide robust confirmation of the existence of the protoplanet. The line ratio will be used to constrain the extinction level at different wavelengths and precisely decide the mass and accretion luminosity of the candidate, these data will be fed to the giant planet formation simulation. Additionally, the potential detection of the thermal continuum will enhance our ability to refine the estimates of the circumplanetary disk's mass and size.