---
id: 5263
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Michael Zhang"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "15.24/0.0"
program_title: "Observing the Atmosphere of a Pulsar Planet"
type: "GO"
---
# 5263 - Observing the Atmosphere of a Pulsar Planet
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5263
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label              | Observing Template          | Science Target      |
|--------------------|-----------------------------|---------------------|
| PRISM phase curve  | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (1) PSR-J2322-2650 |
| G235H day          | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (1) PSR-J2322-2650 |

---

## ABSTRACT

Pulsar planets were the first exoplanets ever discovered, but little is known about their atmospheres or formation processes. We propose to observe a NIRSpec/PRISM spectroscopic phase curve and a 2 h NIRSpec/G295H dayside snapshot of a pulsar planet with mass and temperature typical of hot Jupiters. The millisecond pulsar host to the planet is invisible at infrared wavelengths, allowing us to obtain brown dwarf quality spectra (SNR $\sim$ 200) for an externally irradiated hot Jupiter--a feat impossible for any other known object in the universe. These exquisite spectra will allow us to measure the radius, composition, heat circulation, and possibly outflow of this exotic planet, heated by an ultra-hard pulsar spectrum and a pulsar wind. The composition will constrain the planet's formation mechanism: did it form in a supernova fallback disk, or in an accretion disc born from the tidal disruption of a star? These observations would also help address long-standing questions in high-energy astrophysics. By measuring the radius of the planet, we will know whether it is currently overflowing its Roche lobe, shedding light on whether this companion could have spun up its millisecond pulsar host. By measuring the inclination and orbital velocity of the planet, we will measure the mass of the pulsar, which for other millisecond pulsars has sometimes been large enough to constrain the neutron star equation of state.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We request to observe the planet with NIRSpec/PRISM for 9.25 h, slightly longer than the 7.75 h orbital period. The 1.3 h of extra time allows the detector to settle and gives us one hour of repeat observations, which we choose to situate on the night side. The observations should be done in Bright Object Time Series mode with the SUB512 subarray, the NRS readout pattern, and 20 groups/integration.

We also request to observe the planet with NIRSpec/G235H for 2 h on the dayside. Taking into account the 1 h scheduling uncertainty, this will give us at least 30 min of observations on either side of conjunction. These observations should be done in BOTS mode with the SUB2048 subarray, the NRS readout pattern, and 20 groups/integration.