---
id: 5268
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Joost Wardenier  Co-PIs: Thea Hood"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "59.44/0.0"
program_title: "Around the world in less than two days: observing the spectral phase curve of an ultra-hot Jupiter with JWST/NIRSpec"
type: "GO"
---
# 5268 - Around the world in less than two days: observing the spectral phase curve of an ultra-hot Jupiter with JWST/NIRSpec
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5268
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label              | Observing Template              | Science Target   |
| :----------------- | :------------------------------ | :--------------- |
| WASP-76b Phase Curv | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) BD+01-316    |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose to observe the full phase curve of the ultra-hot Jupiter (UHJ) WASP-76b with NIRSpec/G395H. WASP-76b is one of the best-characterized exoplanets to date, having been observed with at least 8 different ground-based instruments. To date, 22 different atoms and molecules have been detected in its atmosphere, while 13 optical species (i.e., refractories and alkalis) have measured abundances. This poses an exceptional opportunity: if we combine these data with infrared JWST measurements of the planet's volatile content (C, O, H, etc.), we can compute robust volatile-to-refractory ratios and trace back the formation history of WASP-76b with unprecedented detail.

One aspect that complicates the spectral analysis of UHJs is their inherent 3D structure. The permanent dayside and nightside show extreme differences in temperature and chemical composition. Hence, interpreting observations of UHJs with 1D atmospheric models can lead to biased inferences of chemical abundances. To bypass this issue, we need to measure the full 3D temperature structure and cloud cover of the planet, which can then serve as a prior for a multi-dimensional retrieval framework. This will also allow us to re-interpret previous abundance measurements based on ground-based observations. Observing the full phase curve of WASP-76b with sufficient spectral resolution is the only way to obtain a complete picture of the 3D temperature structure and chemistry of its atmosphere. With NIRSpec/G395H on JWST, we will measure the spectroscopic phase curve of WASP-76b at hundreds of wavelength points across a wavelength range that contains the absorption bands of all prominent volatile-bearing molecules.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will observe a full phase curve of the keystone ultra-hot-Jupiter WASP-76b with NIRSpec/G395H in BOTS mode in order to obtain some of the tightest-ever constraints on the formation history of an exoplanet, and better understand its three-dimensional structure.
We use an observing setup of 11 groups per integration and 16676 total integrations. In order to remain below the observatory's maximum frame rate, we divide the total observation up into three exposures, and ensure that the exposure breaks do not occur near any of the rapidly-varying periods of the phase curve (e.g., transit ingress/egress).

We are unable to perform the TA on the target itself, as this leads to saturation of three pixels, and therefore a strong risk that the TA will fail. WASP-76 resides in a sparse field, and the closest star amenable to TA is located at a distance of ~84"; much further than the recommended splitting distance of 40" for NIRSpec. However, using this target for the TA does not adversely affect the schedulability of these observations, as verified with the visit planner.

In order to circumvent scheduling errors related to the length of the observations and short period of the target, we have doubled the published period of WASP-76b and halved the phases when entering scheduling phase constraints.

Two warnings remain in the APT. One concerns the splitting distance between the target and TA star, which was addressed above. The other concerns a possible high gain antenna move during the observations. This warning is expected and acceptable for exoplanet time series observations, and there is no evidence that high gain antenna moves have any negative effects on data quality.