---
id: 5269
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Carlos Eduardo Munoz-Romero  Co-PIs: Alice Booth"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "16.45/0.0"
program_title: "A Multi-wavelength Survey of Irradiated Disks Around a B-star"
type: "GO"
---
# 5269 - A Multi-wavelength Survey of Irradiated Disks Around a B-star
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5269
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template              | Science Target  |
|-------|---------------------------------|-----------------|
| 1     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) 414-50092   |
| 2     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) 551-51201   |
| 3     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) 881-50220   |
| 4     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) 808-50020   |
| 5     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (5) 338-51180   |
| 6     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (6) 252-52365   |
| 7     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (7) 313-48277   |

---

## ABSTRACT

Most stars form in clustered environments, with protoplanetary disks exposed to different levels of external irradiation. This means that most planets form in irradiated disks. With this proposal, we aim to carry out a comprehensive, multi-wavelength survey with JWST MIRI MRS and ALMA Band 6 to unveil irradiated disk chemistry—typical disk chemistry—in a holistic manner. We target seven proplyds in NGC 1977, the only ones known to exist around a B star, 42 Ori. These proplyds are assailed by an external UV field 1e4-1e6 times the ISM average, and thus lie in the range where we expect the most significant chemical effects, while planet formation is still possible. Our goals are to explore how the chemical and physical structure of the inner (< 10 au) and outer disk are affected by the level of FUV/EUV external irradiation. Since volatiles are transported both via gas advection and pebble drift, the outer and inner disk chemistry and structure are intimately linked. Hence, the inner disk chemistry revealed by JWST can only be fully understood in the light of outer disk observations with ALMA. We aim to obtain a complete MIRI MRS spectrum with SNR > 300 to perform a deep search for inner disk ionization (CH3+), photochemistry (H2O/OH, carbon chains, organics), icy pebble drift (hot and cold water vapor), and gas-phase C/O ratio (H2O, CO2, carbon chains) tracers. With ALMA, we propose to observe in 3 settings to obtain high SNR disk-integrated spectra for similar chemical tracers: HCO+ (ionization), HCN/CN ratios (photochemistry), carbon chains and CS/SO (C/O ratios), 13CO and C18O as optically-thin gas tracers, and dust emission to inform pebble drift models.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to observe seven proplyds with MIRI MRS. The sensitivity was calculated based on observed SED of disks within similar irradiation environments in Orion A. We require 3 integrations of 40 groups in the short wavelength range and 3 integrations of 45 groups in the medium and long ranges to guarantee a SNR > 300 at the continuum throughout channels 1-3, even if fluxes are 50% lower than expected. We do not expect saturation even if the continuum or line emision were 10x brighter than expected. We use a 4-point dither pattern optimized for point sources, as we expect all disks to be unresolved.