---
id: 5290
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging  MIRI/LRS  NIRSpec/FS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Chris Ashall  Co-PIs: Peter Hoeflich and Melissa Shahbandeh"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "7.4/0.0"
program_title: "Building the Legacy of Supernova 2023ixf: How Does Molecule Formation Lead to Dust?"
type: "GO"
---
# 5290 - Building the Legacy of Supernova 2023ixf: How Does Molecule Formation Lead to Dust?
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5290
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label        | Observing Template                    | Science Target |
| :----------- | :------------------------------------ | :------------- |
| NIRSpec      | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy       | (1) SN2023ixf  |
| MIRI LRS     | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy      | (1) SN2023ixf  |
| MIRI Imaging | MIRI Imaging                          | (1) SN2023ixf  |
| NIRSpec      | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy       | (1) SN2023ixf  |
| MIRI LRS     | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy      | (1) SN2023ixf  |
| MIRI Imaging | MIRI Imaging                          | (1) SN2023ixf  |

---

## ABSTRACT

Core collapse supernovae (SNe) with hydrogen-rich envelopes, aka Type II SNe (SNe II), are the most common stellar explosions in the Universe. They are the main producers of heavy elements, and produce significant amounts of dust. Thus, the study of these cosmic explosions probes the chemical evolution of the universe, sheds light on the composition of dust in our solar system, and ultimately the genesis of life. Despite the prevalence of SNe II, their exact role as dust producers is poorly understood. Molecules (e.g. CO and SiO) have been observed in the in the ejecta that form dust. These molecules determine which elements are present in interstellar gas and which are tied up in cosmic dust. To make progress in understanding the role of SNe II in dust formation, we must observe nearby SN from days to years after explosion. Here, we request 20.0 hours of time to observe the closest SN II in JWSTs lifetime, SN 2023ixf. Data will be obtained at four epochs from 500-1500 d past explosion. Allowing us to determine, i) How molecule formation leads to dust formation? and ii) When, what kind, and how much dust is produced in the ejecta? With a spectroscopic time series of data, for the first time, we can use molecules to trace the physical conditions throughout the epochs of dust formation, along with the composition of the dust. JWST spectra will reveal the pathway from molecules to dust in a way which was not previously possible. Finally, the data presented here will contribute an important part of the SN 2023ixf legacy dataset which will be used for decades to come.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will obtain four epochs of data of the nearby hydrogen rich type II supernova 2023ixf, ranging from ~2-25 micron. These data will be observed over the next three cycles at the following dates and SN phases from explosion:
1) 6th December 2024 - 8th January 2025; +567-600 d,
2) 18th April 2025 - 7th June 2025; +700-750 d,
3) 18th April 2026 - 7th June 2026; +1065-1165 d,
4) 18th April 2027 - 7th June 2027; +1430-1530 d.

Our science case requires spectra, hence we will use NIRSpec (395M/F290LP+G235M/F170LP) and MIRI/LRS. To complete the SED at longer wavelengths we obtain F1500W, F1800W, F2100W and F2550W imaging. In total this requires 20.0hr of charged time