---
id: 5293
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Xinfeng Xu  Co-PIs: Alaina Henry"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "10.64/0.0"
program_title: "Galactic Winds in the Early Universe: observing outflows in emission and absorption in a typical z~6 galaxy"
type: "GO"
---
# 5293 - Galactic Winds in the Early Universe: observing outflows in emission and absorption in a typical z~6 galaxy
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5293
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                      | Observing Template         | Science Target   |
| :------------------------- | :------------------------- | :--------------- |
| NIRSPEC-IFU                | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy   | (1) MACS0308-ZD1 |
| NIRSPEC-IFU-G140H-BK       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy   | (1) MACS0308-ZD1 |
| NIRCam Imaging             | NIRCam Imaging             | (1) MACS0308-ZD1 |

---

## ABSTRACT

Galactic winds have long been identified to provide various feedback effects that impact the galaxy evolution. While galactic winds have been intensely studied in the low-z universe given abundant spectroscopic data, their properties at the highest redshifts (z>~6) are largely unknown. This is because the predominant diagnostics of outflows - blueshifted UV absorption lines - are not feasible for high spectral resolution observations due to the faint UV continuum. One solution is to search for highly magnified galaxies, where strong gravitational lensing can uncover early galaxies that are bright enough for detailed UV+optical spectroscopic analyses. Toward this goal, we propose to observe the strongly lensed galaxy MACS0308-zD1. Given an AB magnitude of 23.4, a confirmed spectroscopic redshift of 6.2 from ALMA, and a magnification of 20 times, MACS0308-zD1 serves as the brightest known lensed galaxy at z>6 Additionally, the delensed UV luminosity of MACS0308-zD1 is around Lstar, indicating that it is a typical galaxy for its redshift. We propose for NIRSpec/IFU spectra to map its rest-UV to -optical range and aim to get the most robust outflow analyses so far for any z>6 galaxy. This includes spatially resolved measurements of outflow kinematics, column and number density, sizes, and outflow rates. This will be aided with short NIRCam observations to characterize the stellar populations that power the outflows. This investigation will serve as an essential pathfinder for future JWST followup of strongly lensed high-z galaxies discovered by Euclid and the Roman Space Telescope.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This proposal includes:
NIRSpec IFU high-resolution mode for one galaxy
NIRCam imaging for the same galaxy