---
id: 5308
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Luke Moore  Co-PIs: Henrik Melin and Tom Stallard"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "11.64/0.0"
program_title: "Hunting for the source of Saturn's atmospherically driven aurora"
type: "GO"
---
# 5308 - Hunting for the source of Saturn's atmospherically driven aurora
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5308
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label              | Observing Template      | Science Target       |
| :----------------- | :---------------------- | :------------------- |
| SATURN-POLE-STARE | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) Saturn-Pole      |

## ABSTRACT

Recent ground-based observations of Saturn's auroral dynamics have discovered aurorae produced by neutral winds in the planet's atmosphere, a process that overturns decades of orthodoxy describing aurorae as the product of currents following into the planet, caused by drivers within the surrounding space environment. Instead, roughly half of Saturn's auroral power results from currents created within the atmosphere itself. However, while these observations provide powerful evidence of an atmospheric driver, there is currently no understanding of how Saturn's atmosphere produces these neutral winds. Indeed, there is almost no understanding of how the ionosphere and thermosphere exchange energy in the upper atmosphere of Saturn.

Here, we propose to observe Saturn's northern auroral region through an entire Saturnian day, 10.6 hours in length, allowing us to observe the changing temperature of this region as the planet rotates. In addition to a wealth of complementary science returns, in revealing the atmospheric auroral energies for the first time we can hunt for a source of Saturn's atmospherically driven aurora, and thus contextualize this new process more widely, allowing us to understand whether the process is important at Earth, other planets in the solar system, and within astrophysical objects across the universe. JWST-NIRSpec is the only means of producing the needed maps of Saturn's upper atmospheric temperatures, and these maps will additionally serve as crucial constraints on global atmospheric dynamics.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The observations proposed here will investigate Saturn's northern aurora for a complete Saturn day (10.6 hours) using the NIRSpec IFU. The F290LP/G395H filter grating combination provides coverage between 3 and 5 microns where a large number of bright H3+ emission lines are located. As H3+ is the dominant molecular ion in Saturn's ionosphere, it is an excellent probe of upper-atmospheric properties, so spectral analysis will yield auroral temperature and ion density maps.

A 4-point nod pattern will cover Saturn's entire northern auroral region, allowing for complete and continuous coverage after 26 such integrations.