---
id: 5311
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 6
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/GTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Adina Feinstein  Co-PIs: Luis Welbanks"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "50.52/0.0"
program_title: "Continuing the Legacy of AU Mic: Simultaneous FUV and NIR Observations of AU Mic b"
type: "GO"
---
# 5311 - Continuing the Legacy of AU Mic: Simultaneous FUV and NIR Observations of AU Mic b
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5311
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
|-------|--------------------|----------------|
|       | NIRCam Grism Time Series | (1) AU-MIC     |
|       | NIRCam Grism Time Series | (1) AU-MIC     |
|       | NIRCam Grism Time Series | (1) AU-MIC     |
|       | NIRCam Grism Time Series | (1) AU-MIC     |

*(Note: The 'Label' column is empty in the provided table.)*

---

## ABSTRACT

The 23 Myr M star AU Mic and its transiting planets are an ideal laboratory for understanding the impact of stellar activity on young exoplanet atmospheres. Young planetary systems offer a unique advantage in that their spectral signatures are representative of primordial formation conditions. This is significantly advantageous when compared with more evolved planets which have experienced significant stellar irradiation, processing and pollution. The formation mechanism and subsequent evolution of massive, short-period planets is not currently well understood. For example, these planets may have formed at large distances and migrated inwards or alternatively formed in situ. Here, we propose to obtain spectra during 4 transits of AU Mic b, the innermost Neptune-sized planet in the system (Teq = 820K), with NIRCam F322W2/F444W (2.4 - 5 micron). Our primary objective is to measure atmospheric C/O and metallicity to constrain the formation location of the planet.

We propose for simultaneous JWST + HST observations. The chemistry in the atmosphere of AU Mic b will be dictated by the environmental ultraviolet flux. Because AU Mic is both young and a flare-active star, we require FUV observations to (i) identify and remove stellar flares from our transmission spectrum and (ii) characterize the FUV environment, which will be crucial for interpreting our planet spectrum. These observations will also provide unique FUV - NIR measurements of flare events, furthering our understanding of stellar magnetism. These spectra will provide an important legacy for understanding young stars, planetary atmospheres, and combining NIR + FUV to mitigate stellar contamination.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Transit observations of AU Mic b with NIRCam F322W2 and F444W. The transit duration AU Mic b is 3.5 hours. We want an out-of-transit baseline of at least equivalent to the transit duration, with an additional minimum 0.5 hour burn-in time. Therefore, we request observations start 3.5 hours before the transit, go through the transit, and observe for an additional 3 hours post-transit. The total duration should be 10 hours = 36,000 seconds per transit.
We request the same set-up for all four transits we requested.