---
id: 5324
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 6
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging  NIRSpec/FS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Justin Pierel  Co-PIs: Mike Engesser"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "70.44/0.0"
program_title: "Do Pass z=2, Do Collect Type Ia Supernovae: Breaking Out of Redshift Jail with JWST"
type: "GO, Carry-Over ToO, Non-Disruptive ToO"
---
# 5324 - Do Pass z=2, Do Collect Type Ia Supernovae: Breaking Out of Redshift Jail with JWST
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5324
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label   | Observing Template               | Science Target |
| :------ | :------------------------------- | :------------- |
| NRS1    | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy  | (12) SNIa 1    |
| NRS2    | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy  | (16) C3D 1     |
| NRS3    | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy  | (18) UDS-T11   |
| NRS4    | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (4) LOW-Z-4    |
| NRS5    | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (5) LOW-Z-5    |
| NRS6    | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy  | (14) SNIa2     |
| NRS7    | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy  | (20) UDS-T29   |
| NRS8    | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy  | (8) HIGH-Z-3   |
| NRS9    | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (9) HIGH-Z-4   |
| NRS10   | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (10) HIGH-Z-5  |
| NRC-1-1 | NIRCam Imaging                   | (12) SNIa 1    |
| NRC-2-1 | NIRCam Imaging                   | (16) C3D 1     |
| NRC-3-1 | NIRCam Imaging                   | (18) UDS-T11   |
| NRC-4-1 | NIRCam Imaging                   | (4) LOW-Z-4    |
| NRC-5-1 | NIRCam Imaging                   | (5) LOW-Z-5    |
| NRC-6-1 | NIRCam Imaging                   | (14) SNIa2     |
| NRC-7-1 | NIRCam Imaging                   | (20) UDS-T29   |
| NRC-8-1 | NIRCam Imaging                   | (8) HIGH-Z-3   |
| NRC-9-1 | NIRCam Imaging                   | (9) HIGH-Z-4   |
| NRC-10-1| NIRCam Imaging                   | (10) HIGH-Z-5  |
| NRC-1-2 | NIRCam Imaging                   | (12) SNIa 1    |
| NRC-2-2 | NIRCam Imaging                   | (16) C3D 1     |
| NRC-3-2 | NIRCam Imaging                   | (18) UDS-T11   |
| NRC-4-2 | NIRCam Imaging                   | (4) LOW-Z-4    |
| NRC-5-2 | NIRCam Imaging                   | (5) LOW-Z-5    |
| NRC-6-2 | NIRCam Imaging                   | (14) SNIa2     |
| NRC-7-2 | NIRCam Imaging                   | (20) UDS-T29   |
| NRC-8-2 | NIRCam Imaging                   | (8) HIGH-Z-3   |
| NRC-9-2 | NIRCam Imaging                   | (9) HIGH-Z-4   |
| NRC-10-2| NIRCam Imaging                   | (10) HIGH-Z-5  |

## ABSTRACT

Type Ia supernovae (SNe Ia) have been one of our most valuable cosmological probes for over 20 years, and are expected to make landmark dark energy measurements this decade. These next-generation SN Ia dark energy measurements, coming primarily from the Rubin Observatory and Roman Space Telescope, will rely upon SN Ia luminosities remaining constant with redshift to remain unbiased. Any evolution in luminosity distances would indicate variable dark energy, unless SN Ia intrinsic luminosities also vary with redshift. Beyond z~2.5, any such behavior strongly indicates intrinsic SN Ia luminosity evolution, breaking the degeneracy with dark energy and giving high-z SNe Ia unique leverage on evolving systematics. Here we propose to efficiently build a sample of the first 10 spectroscopically-confirmed SNe Ia at z > 2.5 (with sensitivity to z~5) using target of opportunity (ToO) observations. The program identifies any intrinsic SN Ia evolution at the >10% level, puts limits on any monotonic evolution at lower-z, and makes the first z > 2.5 SN Ia rate measurement, which is critical to understanding SN Ia progenitor systems. While Roman is soon expected to observe thousands of SNe Ia, JWST will still be the only telescope capable of detecting SNe Ia beyond z~3-4. This program therefore probes a region of parameter space beyond the capabilities of Roman, opening a brand new discovery space for one of our most mature and important cosmological probes. Only JWST can push this critical frontier for SN Ia cosmology.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

In order to accomplish our science goals, we must 1) spectroscopically classify the SNe as SNIa's. and 2) collect several epochs of imaging to construct a light curve. To do so, we request 10 non-disruptive ToO triggers. We split our triggers into our respective redshift bins.

1.  NIRSpec:
    We will collect NIRSpec Fixed Slit observations for each target as soon as possible. The given exposure times reach at least S/N 5 for the spectral range required to correctly classify as a SNIa (~6000 A rest frame). We opt for the PRISM/CLEAR grating for the most efficient exposures, while still achieving the necessary resolution. In order to optimize spectral and spatial sampling, we use 5 along-slit dithers in the s200a slit. This allows us to capture the full spectral range from the rest-frame UV to the near-IR with adequate resolution. Our targets will not reach the required S/N > 20 to ensure successful target acquisition using NIRSpec Wide Aperture Target Acquisition (WATA). We will select offset TA sources that meet the necessary S/N at minimum using the CLEAR filter, FULL subarray, and NRSRAPIDD6 readout pattern. This combination of parameters allows us to select sources down to 26.9 AB mag.
2.  NIRCam:
    We will collect 2 NIRCam imaging epoch in 4 filters in order to construct a light curve. We will use only module B and a subset of F115W, F150W, F200W, F277W, F356W, and F444W, whichever best model the peak of the SED and which correspond with the filters used in the discovery epoch. As an example, we simply use F150W,F200W,F277W,F444W here, removing F150W in the high-z epoch 2 case where it is expected to fade beyond detectability. Table 1 gives the required exposure times for both epochs for each redshift bin. Given the redshift regime we are targeting, SN evolution in the observer frame will be slow, and we can use non-disruptive ToO triggers to get our additional epochs. Epoch 2 imaging will use special requirements to ensure that it occurs at a cadence of between 7.5 and 12.5 rest-frame days after the first epoch. The first NIRCam epoch has been made non-interruptible with NIRSpec (they should happen in the same visit). This enables more precise phase estimation, improved absolute calibration for NIRSpec, and lower overheads. When ToO targets are generic, even if observations are non-interruptible overheads are calculated by Smart Accounting as though they are separate visits. By creating a mock example of our program with fixed targets, we find Observatory overheads should be reduced by 264s and slews by 1647s for each of 10 triggers, so a total reduction of 5.31 hours. We have set the custom allocation to therefore be 5.31 hours below the smart accounting value.