---
id: 5328
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging  NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Anthony Gonzalez  Co-PIs: Yen-Ting Lin"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "22.37/0.0"
program_title: "Measuring the Form of the IMF in Passive Galaxies at z=1.2"
type: "GO"
---
# 5328 - Measuring the Form of the IMF in Passive Galaxies at z=1.2
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5328
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
|---|---|---|
| | NIRC Imaging | (2) MOO-J1142+1527-NIRCAM |
| 71, 72 | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (5) science+ref-full-unique-05mar25 |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose a direct measurement of the low mass slope of the initial mass function (IMF) close to cosmic noon. We will use gravity-sensitive absorption features in the spectra of massive, passively evolving galaxies at z=1.2 to determine whether the IMF is bottom-heavy in these galaxies, and to quantify the dependence of the IMF on velocity dispersion for these elliptical galaxies. Derived galaxy properties such as stellar mass, age, and star formation history fundamentally depend on the IMF, with most studies assuming a single, universal form. However, evidence for massive ellipticals in the local Universe indicates velocity dispersion-dependent variation in the shape of the IMF with the most massive galaxies having the most bottom-heavy IMF. Our observations will yield the first statistical measurements of the low mass slope of the IMF in the distant Universe, and also its dependence on galaxy mass. At the same time, these IMF measurements provide a new means of directly connecting passive galaxies with their progenitor populations across cosmic time.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will obtain two-band NIRCam pre-imaging of the galaxy cluster MOO J1142+1527 using the SHALLOW4 readout pattern with a FULLBOX 8NIRSPEC primary dither pattern and two subpixel positions. Data will be obtained with three groups per integration and a single integration.

The NIRSpec observations will consist of data taken in two separate grating/filter combinations using a single slit configuration per grating. The grating/filter combinations include a short PRISM/CLEAR observation to map the spectral energy distributions and much longer G235H/F170LP observations to measure the relevant absorption features. The PRISM observations consist of a single exposure specification, while the NIRSpec data are comprised of three repeated observations of the same exposure specification. The slit configurations use 3 shutter long slits and are designed to maximize the number of bright elliptical galaxies from the cluster. We use the NRSIRS2RAPID readout pattern for the PRISM data, but NRSIRS2 for G235H to reduce the data excess. We employ a 3 shutter nod, but do not include a dither to cover the gap in spectral coverage because doing so leads to reduction in the number of primary targets in our configuration.

The final NIRSpec configurations will be designed based on the NIRCam pre-imaging. Once the G235H configuration is designed, then we will use that configuration as the starting point for the prism configuration so that all of the primary and secondary targets are included. We will then add filler targets, based on e.g. phot-z membership probability, to create a new, unique prism configuration that more effectively uses the available shutter areas since the prism spectra are shorter.