---
id: 5342
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/FS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Jerry Xuan  Co-PIs: Jean-Baptiste Ruffio and Yapeng Zhang"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "13.15/0.0"
program_title: "Spectroscopic characterization of the lowest-mass imaged Jupiter analog"
type: "GO"
---
# 5342 - Spectroscopic characterization of the lowest-mass imaged Jupiter analog
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5342
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label   | Observing Template      | Science Target |
| :------ | :---------------------- | :------------- |
| AFLepb  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) AF-Lep-b   |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose to collect NIRSpec high-resolution spectroscopy (R~2700, 2.9-5.3 micron) for AF Lep b, the lowest-mass directly imaged planet with a dynamical mass (3 Jupiter masses). Orbiting its late-F host star with a semi-major axis of 8 AU, AF Lep b is one of the closest analogs to Jupiter amenable to spectral characterization with JWST. Our program will measure the abundances of at least five different molecules (CH4, H2O, H2S, CO2, CO) to provide a comprehensive picture of AF Lep b's atmosphere. Specifically, our simultaneous constraints on C/H, O/H, and S/H would break degeneracies in the planet's formation location relative to various snowlines by constraining the solid-to-gas accretion rate. In addition, we will measure the vertical mixing coefficient to high precision from carbon disequilibrium chemistry, which has important implications for cloud formation and the spectral appearance of cool planets. Finally, our program will enable a comparative atmospheric study with another Jupiter analog in the same beta Pic moving group, 51 Eri b, to be observed by GO 3552 with NIRSpec. 51 Eri b has similar model-inferred mass and semi-major axis as AF Lep b, but is a factor of about 3 fainter than AF Lep b at 2 and 4 microns. Do the two planets have similar elemental abundances, indicating similar formation pathways? Or could differences in their abundances shed light on different formation timescales, even different formation mechanisms? Our program would inform planet formation in a region of parameter space where giant planets are most common (~1-10 AU).

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to use the NIRSpec 200 mas wide fixed slit (S200A2) with the 2.87-5.27 micron filter (F290LP) at moderate resolution (G395H; R~2,700) to measure elemental abundances of AF Lep b. The planet will be ~300 mas away from the star so we require the slit to be oriented perpendicular to the planet-star axis to avoid saturation. The science observation will be dominated by the light from the stellar halo and therefore requires a reference observation of the speckle field on the other side of the star. Using proven techniques from Cycle 1 NIRSpec data, the reference spectra will be used to subtract the stellar light in the science data that includes the planet signal. The host star (AF Lep) is too bright for target acquisition, so a Gaia offset star ~30 arcsec away from AF Lep will be used.