---
id: 5357
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Francesca Bacciotti  Co-PIs: Catherine Dougados"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "23.57/0.0"
program_title: "Sailing with the winds of HL Tau towards the origin of rings and gaps in protoplanetary disks"
type: "GO"
---
# 5357 - Sailing with the winds of HL Tau towards the origin of rings and gaps in protoplanetary disks
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5357
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                       | Observing Template                 | Science Target              |
| :-------------------------- | :--------------------------------- | :-------------------------- |
| HL Tau NIRSpec              | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy           | (4) V-HL-TAU-NIRSPEC        |
| HL Tau MIRI MRS             | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy| (1) V-HL-TAU                |
| HL Tau MIRI MRS Background  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy| (3) BACKGROUND              |
| HL TAU MIRI MRS 2           | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy| (2) V-HL-TAU-1              |
| HL Tau MIRI MRS Background  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy| (5) BACKGROUND-2            |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose to map with the MIRI-MRS and NIRSpec IFUs the atomic jet and the warm (T = 400-3000 K) molecular H2 winds from the young star HL Tau (a prototypical jet/outflow/disk system at 140 pc). The observations will target the first 6-10 arcseconds squared of the south-western red-shifted lobe, in a position coincident with the opening of a well defined conical wind imaged by ALMA at 0."25 resolution in the 1.3 mm CO line. The comparison between the JWST and ALMA datasets, of similar angular resolution, will provide critical constraints on the nature of the flows and on their feedback on the protoplanetary disk. In particular we will check if the arc-shaped and bubble features observed in the ALMA channel maps are replicated with continuity in the inner warm H2 wind. Such evidence would support a scenario in which the various components of the molecular outflow at different excitation are arranged in nested, detached flow surfaces within a global extended layered disk wind. The interest in such a picture is that it would support recent models of magnetized inhomogeneous disk winds that see the formation, at the same time, of detached flow surfaces and of a ring-gap substructure in the disk. These models therefore introduce a justification of the ringed disk structure alternative to the action of the yet elusive protoplanets.
The program also sees the study of the jet in mid-IR atomic lines, with the purpose of testing alternative models of internal bow-shocks as the origin of the arc-shaped features in the outer molecular layers.
The high sensitivity and angular resolution offered by JWST in the mid-IR domain are crucial for this investigation.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to map the inner region of the redshifted lobe of the atomic jet and molecular wind from the young star HL Tau with MIRI-MRS in all spectral channels. Two 1x2 mosaics will cover an area of 6"x6" to 10"x10" depending on the channel. We aim for line brightness sensitivity in the range SNR=5 at the peak of the line and per spaxel for a brightness of 1e-15 erg/s/cm2/arcsec2.
Short exposures (ngroups=18) will be used with MIRI to avoid saturation from the strong central continuum source.
A separated off field background exposure will be obtained for both MIRI mosaics.
The spectral range includes the H2 rotational transitions that probe the warm molecular component at 400-1000 K, as well as the [FeII] forbidden lines that provide a high angular resolution image of the inner jet close to the source, to search for jet/wind interaction signatures.
We also propose to map with NIRSpec-IFU the central 5"x5" of the same outflow in a 2x2 mosaic. We will observe in the two spectral settings G235H and G395H that cover diagnostic lines of the warm molecular component, in particular the H2 2.12 and CO 4.5 micron lines.
We aim at reaching a SNR=7 for a brightness of 2e-15 erg/s/cm2/arcsec2, achievable with ngroups=5, nintegrations=8. Two leakcal calibration exposures are also included. These observations will be critical to probe the probe the warmer molecular gas component at T>1000 K. The near-IR H2 line properties will be combined with the mid-IR ones to test the wind stratification and shock scenarii.
In all observations a four point dithering for extended source will be used.