---
id: 5365
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging  NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Adam Ginsburg  Co-PIs: Nazar Budaiev"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "17.69/0.0"
program_title: "Identifying, counting, and mapping YSOs in Sgr B2: our Galaxy's most massive molecular cloud"
type: "GO"
---
# 5365 - Identifying, counting, and mapping YSOs in Sgr B2: our Galaxy's most massive molecular cloud
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5365
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                              | Observing Template | Science Target      |
| :--------------------------------- | :----------------- | :------------------ |
| Sgr B2 NIRCAM                      | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) SGRB2_NIRCAM    |
| Sgr B2 MIRI                        | MIRI Imaging       | (2) SGRB2_MIRI      |
| Sgr B2 MIRI_safing_redo            | MIRI Imaging       | (2) SGRB2_MIRI      |
| NIRCam Schedule Buffer And Dark    | NIRCam Dark        | NONE                |
| Sgr B2 MIRI_skipped_redo           | MIRI Imaging       | (2) SGRB2_MIRI      |

---

## ABSTRACT

In the central few hundred parsecs of our Galaxy is the gas-rich, extremely dense Central Molecular Zone (CMZ), which exhibits physical conditions unique with in the Local Group that are analogous to galactic environments at Cosmic Noon. Star formation in the CMZ is suppressed by more than an order of magnitude compared to predictions based on Galactic disk star formation laws. Within the CMZ, there is one region that stands out above the rest and accounts for more than half of the total star formation, Sgr B2. We propose to observe the forming young stellar population in Sgr B2 using a range of filters on NIRCam and MIRI that sample YSO tracers, such as accretion, presence of ices, or dust excess. We will map out where YSOs are forming to assess whether star formation occurs above different thresholds in the CMZ, to measure the overall star formation rate, and to determine whether the stellar initial mass function (IMF) is consistent with standard models. There is some evidence from ALMA observations that both the thresholds and the IMF are different in the CMZ, however measurements of the low-mass YSO population, only available with JWST, are needed to test this. The proposed observations enable a robust test of how star formation varies within the extreme environment of our Galactic Center, and will serve as a crucial template for interpreting extragalactic observations.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We aim to map out the Sgr B2 molecular cloud with NIRCam and MIRI.
For NIRCam, we select a set of eleven filters: four narrow-band (PaA 1.87 micron, BrA 4.05 micron, H2 2.12 micron, and CO 4.66 micron), six medium-band (F210M, F182M, F300M, F360M, F410M, and F480M), and one wide-band F150W. MEDIUM2 readout mode is selected to be sensitive to YSOs with luminosities larger than 1 solar luminosity and to decrease the data rate. For the narrow-band PaA and BrA filters, MEDIUM8 is used to improve sensitivity and limit data rate. The narrow- and medium-band filters are selected to mitigate saturation, since the starfield in the inner galaxy is so rich that a substantial fraction (1-5%) of the target area saturates at frame 0 (<1%) or in the final frame (up to 5%). The medium-band filters will also serve as off-band continuum filters for the narrow-band filters. The narrow-band filters are used to measure specific emission features in accreting YSOs (PaA and BrA), CO and water ice in absorption to YSOs, and outflows from YSOs (H2). The wide-band filter is selected at 150 microns because the deeper measurement of the short-wavelength part of the SED deeper into the extincted cloud is valuable for measuring extinction and for spectral classification.
For MIRI, we choose three filters: F770M that includes PAHs present in YSOs, F1220W that traces the far-IR bump, and F2250W to distinguish between dust-rich YSOs and embedded giant stars. The inclusion of MIRI filters will allow for a better SED fitting to YSO models.
We adopted the standard dither patterns for imaging to optimize spatial resolution: full dither with six primary and four sub-pixel dithers for NIRCam and full subarray with 4-point-set dithers for MIRI. The MIRI mosaic is set up to spatially match NIRCam footprint. The naturally allowed position angles are well-aligned with the molecular cloud, so we do not impose any special restrictions on the observations.