---
id: 5368
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Tuan Do  Co-PIs: Matthew Hosek"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "6.44/2.16"
program_title: "A comprehensive proper motion survey of the Milky Way Nuclear Star Cluster to reveal its formation and evolution"
type: "GO"
---
# 5368 - A comprehensive proper motion survey of the Milky Way Nuclear Star Cluster to reveal its formation and evolution
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5368
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label      | Observing Template | Science Target    |
| :--------- | :----------------- | :---------------- |
| Tight6x3   | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) NSC_CENTRAL   |
| Tight6x3   | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) NSC CENTRAL   |

## ABSTRACT

We propose a new survey to measure the physical properties and kinematic structures of the Milky Way Nuclear Star Cluster (MW NSC) to constrain its formation and evolution. This survey will measure proper motions for over 300,000 stars and resulting the most comprehensive study of the MW NSC so far. We propose to map the kinematics of the MW NSC out beyond its half-light radius (> 5pc) with NIRCam with full azimuthal coverage. The survey has the following scientific objectives: (1) Accurately measure essential physical properties such as mass and shape of the MW NSC. (2) Characterize the rotation of the MW NSC and search for kinematic substructures to test theories for its formation. (3) Investigate the interplay between the supermassive black hole, the NSC, and the larger-scale nuclear stellar disk. These measurements are necessary to constrain formation theories of how NSCs form in this extreme environment and provide us the context for comparing our Galactic nucleus with other galaxies.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This proposal advocates for a proper motion survey of the Milky Way Nuclear Star Cluster (MW NSC) in order to investigate its formation and evolution. It uses a 3-pointing NIRCam mosiac (with 4 sub-pixel dithers per pointing) that will be repeated for three consecutive cycles. Each pointing/dither will use a FULLBOX 6TIGHT dither pattern, which provides at least 8 images over ~96% of the proposed survey area in this setup. The 4 sub-pixel dithers allow us to sample the pixel phase of the point-spread function in order to maximize the astrometric performance of the dataset. We request that the observations be taken at the same position angle in each cycle in order to minimize systematic errors in the astrometry. We will use a detector setup of a BRIGHT2 readout pattern, 5 groups/Int, and 1 Int per exposure.

The survey will obtain simultaneous F212N and F480M images. Astrometry will be measured with the F212N filter, which represents an optimal balance between spatial resolution and sensitivity. Use of the narrow-band filter is necessary to reduce the impact of saturation on the measurements. Meanwhile, the combination of the F212N and F480M filters will allow us to measure stellar extinction across the proposed survey area to better than 10% precision.

Overall, these measurements will allow us to measure the proper motions for at least 300,000 stars in the MW NSC with the precision required for kinematic analysis.