---
id: 5381
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Kevin Burdge  Co-PIs: Ilaria Caiazzo"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "34.47/0.0"
program_title: "Unveiling the compact object and stellar populations of globular clusters Terzan 5 and Liller 1"
type: "GO"
---
# 5381 - Unveiling the compact object and stellar populations of globular clusters Terzan 5 and Liller 1
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5381
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :---- | :----------------- | :------------- |
| 1     | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) CL-TERZAN-5 |
| 2     | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) CL-TERZAN-5 |
| 3     | NIRCam Imaging     | (2) C-1730-333 |
| 4     | NIRCam Imaging     | (2) C-1730-333 |

---

## ABSTRACT

Among the Milky Way's globular clusters, Terzan 5 and Liller 1 are exceptional. Terzan 5 boasts more known pulsars than any other globular cluster, while Liller 1 exhibits unprecedented gamma-ray emission, hinting at a vast pulsar population. Both clusters are not only massive and dense but are also believed to experience the highest stellar collision rates in the Galaxy. This makes them prime sites for the formation of compact binary systems through dynamical interactions. Additionally, these clusters share the rare characteristic of multiple stellar populations, a trait only otherwise seen in Omega Centauri, suggesting they experienced several star formation episodes.

However, our understanding of the compact objects and stellar populations within these clusters has been limited due to their high levels of obscuration. We propose employing NIRCAM to capture time-series photometry of these unique environments, aiming to unveil the ultracompact binary systems and variable stars therein. This effort will provide insights into the role of dynamical processes in the formation of compact binaries—a topic now at the forefront of gravitational wave astronomy. Our program will maximize NIRCAM's potential, relying on its unmatched sensitivity, field of view, angular resolution, and wavelength capabilities. The resulting dataset promises wide-ranging applications, catering to the optical, IR, radio, X-ray, and gravitational wave communities. We anticipate that our findings and this dataset will significantly enrich the scientific legacy of JWST.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Here we propose to obtain NIRCAM observations of the globular clusters Terzan 5 and Liller 1. We split the observations into a total of four 6.7 hr segments (two on Terzan 5, two on Liller 1). The observations themselves will use the BRIGHT2 readout pattern of NIRCAM, with the F200W filter in the short wavelength, and the F356W filter in the long wavelength arm. In both cases we use the FULLP subarray, and center them on the cores of the clusters.