---
id: 5390
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Cicero Lu"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "4.11/0.0"
program_title: "HD 131488: A Unique Laboratory to Probe Volatile Transportation Mechanism in the Epoch of Terrestrial Planet Formation"
type: "GO"
---
# 5390 - HD 131488: A Unique Laboratory to Probe Volatile Transportation Mechanism in the Epoch of Terrestrial Planet Formation
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5390
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label          | Observing Template       | Science Target   |
| :------------- | :----------------------- | :--------------- |
| HD 131488      | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) HD-131488    |
| HD 131488-Cal  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (6) HD-135848    |

---

## ABSTRACT

Studies of the Solar system suggest that comets can deliver volatile and refractory elements from the outer solar system to Earth during the epoch of terrestrial planet formation. Even as a mature planetary system, solar system comets outgassing CO gas and H2O vapor were caught in the act. JWST Cycle 1 observations have discovered CO fundamental emission in a young, and exocomet-active planetary system, HD 131488. This is the first time that CO ro-vibrational emission at near-infrared wavelengths has been discovered in a debris disk. We propose a follow-up observation to map the CO distribution and the hot dust emission in HD 131488, with NIRSpec IFU G395H/F290lP disperser and filter combination. We will test several hypotheses for the cometary delivery models by mapping and comparing the spatial distribution of 12CO and 13CO transitions that probe various gas populations and search for dust disk asymmetry due to exocometary delivery. The detailed characterization of HD 131488 will benchmark our understanding of volatiles in an exoplanetary system.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

**Summary:**
We propose NIRSpec IFU observations with G395H/F290LP filter and grating settings to map the spatial distribution of (1) the cold CO population with spatially-resolved 12CO and 13CO ro-vibrational emission lines, (2) hot dust via continuum excess emission, (3) to determine the warm CO gas column density, and (4) to search for H2O ro-vibrational emission in 2.9-3.1 and 4.5-5 micron with a better SNR than that of the existing Fixed Slit observations.

**Observation design**
**Target acquisition and dithering pattern:**
Since our target stars are too bright to use for WATA, we have selected a calibrator star from the Gaia Archive within 1 arcmin of the targets and J magnitudes of 11.532. We propose WATA for target acquisition to improve the pointing position for our bright science target. The observation uses the "cycling" dither pattern with 9-point dithers and a small offset size (0.25'') for all wavelengths to improve spatial sampling. Obs1 observes the science target. Obs2 is a dedicated calibrator observation to improve the PSF subtraction of the star from the disk.

**Exposure times:**
Using ETC, we will request 4 groups/int and 1 int/exposure setting, because this setup will allow us to achieve a SNR~700. We request 5 groups/int and 5 int/exposure settings for our calibrator star to match the SNR of our science target. We estimate the SNR of CO map to be at least 50 per spaxel across the disk using the ETC NIRSpec IFU simulation tool.

Regarding APT warning: “Warning (Form) The slew between the acquisition exposure and the farthest science exposure is 73.275 Arcsec (larger than the recommended limit of 65.000 Arcsec) and may result in reduced or no schedulability."
We note that this is a follow-up observation of HD131488 NIRSpec fixed slit observation. In cycle 1, HD 131488 has been observed with the exact same acquisition target which proves that this warning should not be a concern to our observation.

**Special Requirement:**
We request our science target and our PSF calibration star observation be in sequence and non-interruptible to get the most accurate representation of the background to facilitate PSF subtraction.