---
id: 5405
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: James Muzerolle Page"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "14.24/0.0"
program_title: "Accretion Irradiation as an Agent of Protoplanetary Disk Evolution: JWST IFU Observations of a Protostellar Pulsed Accretor"
type: "GO"
---
# 5405 - Accretion Irradiation as an Agent of Protoplanetary Disk Evolution: JWST IFU Observations of a Protostellar Pulsed Accretor
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5405
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label               | Observing Template              | Science Target       |
| :------------------ | :------------------------------ | :------------------- |
| NRS pre-peak        | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy        | (4) LRLL54361-NRS    |
| NRS peak            | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy        | (4) LRLL54361-NRS    |
| NRS post-peak       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy        | (4) LRLL54361-NRS    |
| MRS bright          | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) LRLL54361-NRS    |
| MRS bright offset   | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) LRLL54361-OFFSET |

---

## ABSTRACT

Accretion-driven UV irradiation of protoplanetary disks is an important factor in setting disk structure and chemical pathways across a wide range of evolutionary states, from deeply embedded protostars to the dispersal of protoplanetary disks. However, other mechanisms such as viscous dissipation and shocks are also operating, and the typically stochastic nature of accretion variability hinders our ability to disentangle these competing effects. To help address this issue, we propose MIRI MRS and multi-epoch NIRSpec IFU observations of a rare periodically-varying protostar. The pulse-like variability in this low-mass object exhibits a tenfold-increase in accretion luminosity every 25 days, which subjects the surrounding disk and infalling envelope to repeated blasts of UV radiation. The predictability of this source provides a unique opportunity to quantify the importance of UV irradiation on molecular gas in disks and outflows at a very early evolutionary stage, during which direct measures of UV light are impossible because of high dust extinction from protostellar envelopes. Spectral imaging will provide characterization of molecular emission from several key constituents of the circumstellar material; comparison with pulse phase and simultaneous accretion diagnostics will illuminate the connection to UV irradiation. The results will in turn provide key constraints needed to fully test theories of planet formation in protoplanetary disks, and will set the stage for future multi-epoch studies with JWST.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose spectral imaging observations of the variable protostar LRLL 54361. These will include single pointings with the NIRSpec IFU at three epochs, and a single epoch with MIRI MRS. For NIRSpec, we plan to observe with the G235H and G395H gratings and a 4-point dither pattern for each epoch. No dedicated background or MSA leakage exposures are needed given the low background expected in the MSA and IFU FOVs. NIRSpec exposure times have been estimated to achieve a limiting S/N >~ 20 per resel per pixel for extended molecular emission. For MIRI, we plan a single observation using all MRS channels and the 4-point dither pattern for extended sources. Exposure times have been estimated to achieve a limiting S/N ranging from 30 to > 200 per pixel in the continuum across the full MRS wavelength range, assuming a point source (most of the source continuum light at these wavelengths is expected to be relatively compact). The spacecraft blind pointing accuracy will be sufficient to place the full extent of the target within the IFU/MRS FOVs, so target acquisition is not required for either instrument. We have added special requirement timing (phase) and sequence constraints in order to observe the target at certain predicted brightness levels, as required by our science goals.