---
id: 5408
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Megan Reiter"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "68.19/0.0"
program_title: "Diving Deeper: uncovering the full spectrum of accretion and outflow in the heart of the Carina Nebula"
type: "GO"
---
# 5408 - Diving Deeper: uncovering the full spectrum of accretion and outflow in the heart of the Carina Nebula
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5408
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                   | Observing Template | Science Target          |
| :---------------------- | :----------------- | :---------------------- |
| HH 666                  | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) HH-666              |
| Seahorse                | NIRCam Imaging     | (2) HH1159-HH1164       |
| HH 1005                 | NIRCam Imaging     | (7) HH-1005             |
| G287.10-0.73            | NIRCam Imaging     | (15) G287.10-0.73       |
| G288.16-1.17            | NIRCam Imaging     | (16) G288.16-1.17       |
| Treasure Chest          | NIRCam Imaging     | (6) NAME-TREASURE-CHEST |
| HH 903                  | NIRCam Imaging     | (5) HH-903              |
| HH1010                  | NIRCam Imaging     | (19) HH-1010            |
| HH1008                  | NIRCam Imaging     | (20) HH-1008            |
| HH1007                  | NIRCam Imaging     | (22) HH-1007            |
| HH1006                  | NIRCam Imaging     | (24) HH1006             |
| central mosaic - bottom | NIRCam Imaging     | (27) HH-1019            |
| Tr16 wall               | NIRCam Imaging     | (26) HH-900             |
| Tr14 wall               | NIRCam Imaging     | (25) HH-902             |
| Mystic Mountains        | NIRCam Imaging     | (28) HH-901             |
| HH1013                  | NIRCam Imaging     | (29) HH-1013            |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose a targeted survey of the vigorously star-forming Carina Nebula that will produce the first comprehensive census of accretion and outflow activity across a wide range of protostar masses. Extrapolating from published results using JWST imaging of the neighboring region NGC3324, we expect this survey of Carina to discover ~400 new jets, producing the largest sample of outflows in any single region. At 2.3 kpc, Carina is the nearest high-mass star-forming region that fully samples the initial mass function (IMF), and where the impact of massive star feedback is on full display. We request NIRCam images of 12 regions in the F164N and F470N filters to detect [Fe II] and H2 from protostellar outflows. We also request two complementary broadband filters (F150W2, F444W, respectively) to remove continuum emission. Carina represents the optimal combination of sensitivity, source density, and image quality to detect and characterize a statistical sample of outflows and, in the future, measure their proper motions. Obtaining first epoch images in Cycle 3 is essential to build on the legacy of HST which has been following the temporal evolution of this region for ~20 years (including a 3rd epoch of scheduled Cycle 31 observations). This will yield the largest sample of protostellar outflows in a single star forming region, providing a homogeneous sample of jets and outflows to: measure dynamical ages and duty cycles thereby placing important constraints on the episodic mass-loss and accretion history of a wide range of protostars; identify driving sources; and estimate mass-loss rates and therefore momentum injection into the local cloud.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We request targeted NIRCam imaging of several sites of active star formation in the Carina Nebula. In total, we expect to detect 100s of outflows.

Most fields require only a single pointing with fullbox dithers to close the gap between modules. This captures are area ~1.5 pc x 3.5 pc maximizing the discovery space. For two targets, we request small (2 point) mosaics to measure variations along and behind the most prominent and heavily irradiated dust walls.

For each pointing, we request a range of positions angles that aligns the long axis of NIRCam with the major axis of the pillar to maximize coverage of the embedded sources. The large FOV also captures regions just outside the PDR, allowing us to probe high density jets in the HII region and any entrained molecular gas in the brief period where it is irradiated by not yet completely dissociated. Where possible (for the EGO targets) we have left the PA unconstrained.