---
id: 5409
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Matthew De Furio"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "10.71/3.87"
program_title: "A Fundamental Study of Star and Planet Formation: Spectroscopic Confirmation of Free-floating Jupiter Mass Objects in NGC 2024"
type: "GO"
---
# 5409 - A Fundamental Study of Star and Planet Formation: Spectroscopic Confirmation of Free-floating Jupiter Mass Objects in NGC 2024
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5409
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label          | Observing Template                | Science Target          |
| :------------- | :-------------------------------- | :---------------------- |
| Jan21Plan 3step | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (12) source_list_v2 |

---

## ABSTRACT

Theoretical star formation models have estimated the fundamental limit of turbulent fragmentation of molecular cloud cores to be ~ 1-10Mjup, overlapping masses that can result from planet formation within the disk of a star. At the same time, observational studies identify a decreasing initial mass function (IMF) approaching the limit of formation, yet are incomplete below ~ 20 Mjup. Recent JWST/NIRCam observations in NGC 2024, a moderate density embedded cluster with an age < 1 Myr, have identified dozens of candidate planetary mass objects with estimated masses down to 0.7 Mj based on their photometric color. We propose to obtain 1-5 micron spectra of 75 candidate planetary mass objects and brown dwarfs with estimated masses < 40 Mjup (45 of which are < 10 Mjup) in NGC 2024 with the NIRSpec/MSA in prism mode. With these spectra, we will use both atmospheric models and previously observed planetary mass object spectra in order to estimate masses and determine membership of our sample. Additionally, we will utilize the spectral retrieval technique to estimate elemental abundances and search for signatures of formation within a circumstellar disk, e.g. reduced C/O ratio due to formation beyond the H2O ice line. Our program requires only 10.7 total hours in order to: 1) probe the low mass limit of turbulent fragmentation (i.e. brown dwarf formation), 2) define the shape of the IMF down to Jupiter mass scales, and 3) identify Jupiter-mass ejected planets from their enhanced elemental abundances relative to other cluster members.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to obtain NIRSpec/MSA prism (R~100) spectra of at least 75 candidate planetary mass objects and brown dwarfs in NGC 2024. NIRCam imaging has already been performed in this star-forming region, resulting in precise astrometric measurements of the locations of these sources, and therefore we require only NIRSpec/MSA observations without additional NIRCam imaging. In this program, we will observe 75 sources over 1-5 microns using six MSA configurations in four visits. We require a total exposure time of 2801s using the three shutter slitlet for each source and reading out with the NRSIRS2RAPID pattern with 15 groups/integration and 4 integrations/exposure and 3 dithers. This achieves higher sensitivity than default readout patterns, required for our observations of faint sources. These observations will achieve S/N > 5 across 1-5 microns, differentiate elemental abundance features at the 5 sigma level, and achive S/N > 30 in dominant spectral features of high and low surface gravity for a typical 1 Mj source. In addition, we request NIRCam parallel imaging in many medium and broadband filters that will observe a separate part of the region than previously studied in order to identify other candidate planetary mass objects. Here, we will use the shallow2 readout pattern with 3 groups/integration, 6 integrations/exposure, and 3 dithers to identify a 1 Mj object through Av=30 mag with S/N=5 in the F430M filter. These parallel observations will also provide for future studies of environmental effects on star formation.