---
id: 5427
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Rebecca Davies"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "18.01/12.22"
program_title: "Feedback and quenching: separating neutral gas in outflows and galaxies at z~2"
type: "GO"
---
# 5427 - Feedback and quenching: separating neutral gas in outflows and galaxies at z~2
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5427
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label             | Observing Template              | Science Target                      |
| :---------------- | :------------------------------ | :---------------------------------- |
| BlueJay-NORTH-NEW | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (3) BLUEJAY-MASTER-NORTH-NEW      |
| BlueJay-SOUTH-NEW | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (4) BLUEJAY-MASTER-SOUTH-NEW      |

---

## ABSTRACT

AGN activity is considered a key driver of quenching in massive galaxies, but it remains unclear whether this quenching is caused by powerful outflows (ejective feedback), or preventative feedback, or both. This proposal addresses two key questions: Do AGN-driven cool (neutral) outflows remove gas rapidly enough to quench star-formation? And do quenched galaxies truly lack cool gas? It was previously very difficult to detect cool gas in quenching galaxies at z~2, but JWST has driven a major breakthrough, revealing that NaD absorption tracing dusty neutral gas is widespread in massive galaxies at this epoch. Many quenching galaxies show powerful AGN-driven neutral outflows that appear to eject gas much faster than it is converted into stars, and these outflows may be a key mechanism for fast quenching at z~2. However, the R~1000 discovery spectra do not have sufficient resolution to separate neutral gas in the interstellar medium from that in outflows. This program will add R~2700 observations to the existing R~1000 data for a mass-selected sample of 141 galaxies at 1.7<z<3.5, using the G235H grating to spectrally resolve the gas kinematics in both the NaD and Halpha lines. We will investigate how neutral gas reservoirs vary with time since quenching, enabling us to differentiate between potential quenching scenarios. We will also perform the first direct comparison of neutral (NaD) and ionized (Halpha) outflow properties for a statistical sample of galaxies at z~2, providing crucial insights into multiphase outflow mass budgets. This program will significantly improve our understanding of outflows and the mechanisms driving galaxy quenching at cosmic noon.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We plan to observe a sample of 141 galaxies at 1.7 < z < 3.5 with NIRSpec in the MOS mode, using the G235H/F170LP grating to cover the Na D absorption line and the Halpha emission line. The targeted galaxies are distributed across 2 pointings in the COSMOS field. These pointings have already been observed using medium resolution gratings, and we require that the new observations are conducted at identical PA to that of the existing observations so that 1) we are able to target exactly the same sample of galaxies, and 2) the medium- and high-resolution spectra of each galaxy probe the same physical location, minimising biases due to differences in slit location and/or orientation. We adopt a 2-shutter nodding which in most cases will be used as a dither, since most of the targets are large enough to contaminate adjacent shutters. Background subtraction will be performed using a master sky spectrum derived from empty shutters. NIRCam parallel imaging will also be obtained, adopting a 2-point compromise dither.