---
id: 5437
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: William Best"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "20.88/8.38"
program_title: "A Census to the Bottom of the IMF in W3: Atmospheres, Disks, Accretion, and Demographics"
type: "GO"
---
# 5437 - A Census to the Bottom of the IMF in W3: Atmospheres, Disks, Accretion, and Demographics
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5437
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
### 1. List of Labels, Observing Template, and Science Targets

| Folder      | Observation | Label                                                               | Observing Template               | Science Target       |
| :---------- | :---------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------ | :------------------------------- | :------------------- |
| W3 NIRSpec  | 1           | Faint PRISM 1A Final 2, Bright PRISM + grisms 1A Final 2          | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (1) W3-JWST-1A-FINAL |
| + NIRCam    | 2           | Faint PRISM 2 Final 2, Bright PRISM + grisms 2 FINAL 2          | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (2) W3-JWST-2-FINAL  |
|             | 3           | Faint PRISM 3A FINAL 2, Bright PRISM + grisms 3A FINAL 2          | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (3) W3-JWST-3A-FINAL |

---

## ABSTRACT

Young brown dwarfs (BDs) and planetary-mass objects (PMOs) offer powerful tests of the universality of the IMF, the frequency and timescale of planet formation, and the typical atmospheric properties (and range of their variations) for analogs of directly-imaged and transiting planets, all at an extreme (protostellar mass and luminosity, disk mass, young age) where models are most strained. Most known PMOs are in nearby sparse populations, but these regions are small (with few PMOs) and spread out (limiting multiplexing). Given JWST's superb sensitivity, the highest value is in source density rather than closeness or brightness. Distant, massive star-forming clusters offer more and denser targets, and HST has revealed them just in time for carefully optimized JWST follow-up.

We propose a highly multiplexed NIRSpec+NIRCam program for young BDs and PMOs, targeting 3 pointings in the young (0-8 Myr), massive (~10,000 members), and dense (R~12 arcmin) W3 cluster. We propose NIRSpec/MOS spectra of candidate young members from HST photometry (prism for 231 faint BDs and PMOs, grism and prism for 112 brighter BDs) to measure Teff, gravity, accretion from emission lines, and disks from IR excess. We propose parallel NIRCam imaging in 12 filters (for SEDs, water bands indicating low Teff, emission lines, and outflows) to seek the very bottom of the IMF (~2 MJup) and measure Teff, accretion, and disks. Our program will deliver a large and robust census of the lowest-mass objects across varied environments, providing a new view of the IMF, disks, planet formation, and the atmospheres of analogs to the directly-imaged and transiting planets that drive much of JWST's key science.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose a highly-multiplexed NIRSpec+NIRCam pilot program for young low-mass stars, brown dwarfs (BDs) and planetary mass objects (PMOs), targeting 3 pointings in the young, massive, and high-angular density W3 cluster.
We propose NIRSpec/MOS spectra of candidate cluster members:
- Prism spectra for 231 BDs and PMOs and 112 brighter BDs
- G140M/F100LP and G395M/F290LP grism spectra for the same 112 brighter BDs
With these we will measure Teff, gravity, mass, accretion from emission lines, and disks from IR excess, and we will constrain the IMF down to ~10 MJup.
We propose coordinated parallel NIRCam imaging of adjacent fields in W3 in 12 filters:
- F115W, F162M, F210M, F300M, F335M, F360M, F444W, for SEDs and consistency with GTO programs targeting substellar objects in nearby star-forming regions
- F140M and F182M, centered on water absorption bands indicating low Teff
- F187N, F405N, and F470N, for accretion-driven emission lines
With these we will seek the very bottom of the IMF (~2 MJup) and measure Teff, accretion, and disks.