---
id: 5451
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS  NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Jacob Jencson"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "20.59/0.0"
program_title: "Resolving the Dynamic ISM with IR Echoes around Cas A"
type: "GO"
---
# 5451 - Resolving the Dynamic ISM with IR Echoes around Cas A
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5451
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                      | Observing Template              | Science Target             |
| :------------------------- | :------------------------------ | :------------------------- |
| ECHOW1-NIRCAM-Pre1         | NIRCam Imaging                  | (4) ECHOW1-NIRCAM          |
| ECHOW1-NIRCAM-Pre2         | NIRCam Imaging                  | (4) ECHOW1-NIRCAM          |
| ECHOW1-NIRCAM-Main1        | NIRCam Imaging                  | (4) ECHOW1-NIRCAM          |
| ECHOW1-NIRCAM-Main2        | NIRCam Imaging                  | (4) ECHOW1-NIRCAM          |
| ECHOW1-NIRCAM-Main3        | NIRCam Imaging                  | ECHOW1-NIRCAM              |
| ECHOW1-MIRI-Main1          | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (5) ECHOW1-MIRI            |
| ECHOW1-MIRIBKG-Main1       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) MIRI-BKG               |
| ECHOW1-MIRI-Main2          | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (5) ECHOW1-MIRI            |
| ECHOW1-MIRIBKG-Main2       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) MIRI-BKG               |
| ECHOW1-MIRI-Main3          | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (5) ECHOW1-MIRI            |
| ECHOW1-MIRIBKG-Main3       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) MIRI-BKG               |
| ECHOW1-NIRCAM-Pre1-repeat | NIRCam Imaging                  | (4) ECHOW1-NIRCAM          |

---

## ABSTRACT

The content and structure of the interstellar medium (ISM) plays an influential role in the overall evolution of galaxies and the formation of stars within them. Importantly, the ISM is also shaped by the massive stars formed out of its gas and dust and the energetic supernovae (SNe) they produce. JWST opens new pathways to investigate the detailed structure and composition of ISM clouds and to witness the effects of SN explosions on their surroundings. This proposal outlines a carefully designed program of time-series NIRCam imaging and MIRI/IFU spectroscopy to observe bright infrared (IR) echoes around the young SN remnant Cassiopeia A. This provides a unique window to view the effects of the high-energy burst of SN radiation as it interacts with the surrounding ISM dust clouds in real time. The requested observations exploit JWST's unique ability to 1) provide 3D maps at milli-pc scales of the structure of the echoing clouds, 2) determine the precise compositions of dust grains and molecules, and 3) measure the changes in, e.g., the sizes, shapes, and ionization states, of the same, in situ populations of dust grains and large molecules induced by the passage of the SN radiation field. These findings will have broad implications in unraveling the connections of ISM clouds and filaments to their role as the seeds of star formation, and how cloud properties are then set by the stars and SNe they produce.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to obtain five epochs of NIRCam imaging, including two epochs of pre-imaging to monitor the motion of IR echos around Cas A. We will use F444W filter, and a combination of F300M/F335M/F360M to map the morphology of the echos and measure the flux of the 3.3 um PAH feature. We will obtain simultaneous SW imaging with the F200W, F150W, F115W (to search for dust heated to high temperatures) and F070W (to search for reflected-light optical echoes).

We will also obtain 3 epochs of MIRI/MRS spectroscopy on a specific sub-component of the echo (determined from our pre-imaging), to observe the dust pre-, during, and post-heating by the SN radiation as the echo passes over the field. We will also obtain simultaneous imaging in the F560W, F770W, and F1000W to provide excellent relative astrometry.