---
id: 5460
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Nicholas Ballering"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "20.03/0.0"
program_title: "A Panchromatic View of Protoplanetary Disk Dispersal"
type: "GO"
---
# 5460 - A Panchromatic View of Protoplanetary Disk Dispersal
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5460
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                  | Observing Template       | Science Target               |
| :--------------------- | :----------------------- | :--------------------------- |
| 177-341 NIRspec        | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) 177-341                  |
| 142-301 NIRspec        | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (2) 142-301                  |
| 072-135 NIRspec        | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (3) 072-135                  |
| Background NIRSpec     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (4) PROPLYDS-BACKGROUND      |

## ABSTRACT

The majority of stars, including our Sun, form in clusters in the presence of massive stars. This UV-rich environment leads to the rapid destruction of the stars' protoplanetary disks. While Hubble, ALMA, and JWST images have glimpsed the photoevaporating “proplyds” in Orion, there is still much we do not understand about the driving forces that lead to these disks' dispersal and its effect on planet formation. We propose to use the JWST NIRSpec IFU to conduct a detailed spatial/spectral analysis of the ionization front, outflow, and disk of three Orion proplyds. The targets exhibit the prototypical proplyd morphology on which models of disk photoevaporation are based. We will map the key molecular dissociation fronts in the outflows and derive their density and temperature to accurately calculate the disk mass loss rates. Measuring the PAH abundance will reveal the microphysics that drives external photoevaporation, putting the leading models of this process to the test. Finally, molecular emission and ice absorption features from the disks will tell us how the cluster environment impacts the chemistry of planet formation.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The goal of these observations is to acquire deep NIRSpec IFU observations of three proplyds in the Orion Nebula Cluster. We are interested in mapping the distribution of various atomic and molecular emission lines, the PAH 3.3 micron feature, and ice absorption features across the various proplyd components (ionization front, outflow, and molecular disk). We will use a 4-point dither pattern optimized for extended sources. We request dedicated background observations and NIRspec leakcal exposures to aid in data reduction. We do not request target acquisition. We center the observations on the proplyd head and central disk because measuring the full extent of the tail is not critical.