---
id: 5485
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/FS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Aneesh Baburaj  Co-PIs: Quinn Konopacky"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "9.87/0.0"
program_title: "How big can you make a planet? Spectroscopic characterization of HD 206893B"
type: "GO"
---
# 5485 - How big can you make a planet? Spectroscopic characterization of HD 206893B
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5485
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label              | Observing Template        | Science Target      |
| :----------------- | :------------------------ | :------------------ |
| HD 206893B IFU     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (1) HD-206893B      |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose moderate resolution spectroscopic characterization of HD 206893B, a ~28Mjup directly imaged (DI) companion with strong evidence of formation via a circumstellar disk. Measuring the detailed abundances of this closely separated companion will provide a window into the utility of formation diagnostic tools at the extreme upper end of the planet formation process. We propose observations with an R~2,700 fixed-slit NIRSpec spectra between 3-5um. New analysis of NIRSpec capabilities suggests that detection is easily achievable despite the high contrast and tight separation of the companion (~0.2"). We will measure molecular lines from species such as CO, CO2, H2S, CH4, and H2O. These detections will be used to derive the metallicity, carbon-to-oxygen ratio, volatile-to-sulfur ratio, and cloud properties of HD 206893B. The different abundance ratios we propose to measure on this planet could give detailed insights into its formation pathways. Furthermore, due to its extremely red color and dusty atmosphere, HD 206893B offers an opportunity to investigate the impact of extreme clouds on the spectra in this wavelength regime.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to use the 200 mas-wide fixed slits (S200A1 and S200A2) of the NIRSpec along with the 2.9-5.1um filter (F290LP) and the G395H grating to obtain moderate resolution (R~2,700) spectra of HD 206893B. This will enable us to characterize the atmosphere of this companion (including looking for signatures of H2S) and also elucidate the differences in formation pathways between companion objects of super-Jovian and brown dwarf masses. The planet will be 200mas away from the star in cycle 3 and we require the slit to be oriented perpendicular to the planet-star axis to avoid saturation. Light from the stellar halo will dominate our science observation, so we require reference observations of the speckle field on the other side of the star. This reference spectra will be used to model and/or subtract the stellar light in the science data that includes the planet signal. The observations will be split into otherwise identical sequences between the two 200mas slits. Since the host star (HD 206893) is too bright for target acquisition, an offset star with Gaia astrometry will be used.