---
id: 5497
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Coronagraphy"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Gudmundur Stefansson  Co-PIs: Polychronis Patapis"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "5.16/0.0"
program_title: "Resolving the Radio Riddle: Unveiling the Origins of Radio Emission in a Red Dwarf and its Wide-Orbit Companion"
type: "GO"
---
# 5497 - Resolving the Radio Riddle: Unveiling the Origins of Radio Emission in a Red Dwarf and its Wide-Orbit Companion
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5497
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label          | Observing Template             | Science Target     |
| :------------- | :----------------------------- | :----------------- |
| Science target | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (1) G-122-49       |
| Reference      | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (2) V-HT-UMa       |

## ABSTRACT

Detection of radio emission due to the electron cyclotron maser instability (ECMI) is likely the only viable way to measure exoplanets' magnetic fields. Because ECMI from exoplanets has not yet been detected we have no empirical knowledge of their magnetic fields. Radio observations of GJ 1151, a 5 Gyr M5 star at 8 parsec, revealed an unexpected ECMI signature. In the absence of known massive planets around GJ 1151 capable of emitting this signature, the emission was originally attributed to star-planet interaction with a short-period planet. Subsequent radial velocity (RV) measurements excluded this hypothesis, but revealed an RV trend suggestive of a distant gas giant or brown dwarf companion. Is this the coveted radio-emitting exoplanet?

To answer this question, we propose the 'Resolving the Radio Riddle' program to obtain 3 hours of JWST/NIRCam coronagraphy observations of GJ 1151 with the F200W and F444W filters, which would be sensitive to companions down to 3 Mjup from 3-25 AU. The companion is expected to be cool (200K-350 K depending on its mass), making JWST the only instrument capable to detect the companion down to planetary mass regimes. Through combining the proposed NIRCam observations with the available RVs, we will be able to measure the dynamical mass of the companion, and inform evolutionary models that lack observational constraints at these ages. We will for the first time confirm radio emission of a planetary mass companion, provide the first empirical test of dynamo scaling laws that predict exoplanetary magnetic fields, and open up the emerging field of radio astronomy to characterize exoplanets and substellar companions.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will obtain NIRCam dual band coronagrahy osbervations of M5 star GJ1151 in the F200W and F444W filters using MASK335R. We will move directly to the nearby M2 star HT UMA in a non interruptible sequence to observe a reference PSF using a 9 grid pattern in order to sample the PSF and improve the PSF subtraction. These observations should yield mass limits of 3 jupiter masses at the age of 5Gyr for the host star, enabling the detection of an radio emitting gas giant with a long-term RV trend.