---
id: 5507
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Taylor Hutchison  Co-PIs: Rebecca Larson"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "23.29/0.0"
program_title: "Deep Spectroscopy of Galaxies at z=4-14: Uncovering Drivers of Early Galaxy Formation and Black Hole Growth"
type: "GO"
---
# 5507 - Deep Spectroscopy of Galaxies at z=4-14: Uncovering Drivers of Early Galaxy Formation and Black Hole Growth
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5507
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Folder Observation | Label    | Observing Template                | Science Target          |
| :----------------- | :------- | :-------------------------------- | :---------------------- |
| 2                  | P1 both  | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (1) 5507_MPT Catalog    |
| 3                  | P2 both  | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (4) 5507_MPT Catalog 2b |

---

## ABSTRACT

The first year of JWST observations has led to many exciting discoveries, with key results challenging previous expectations of the formation and evolution of the early Universe. Such fascinating discoveries include a much higher than anticipated abundance of z > 9 galaxies, the presence of small accreting supermassive black holes in otherwise "ordinary" galaxies, and unpredicted massive galaxies at early times. JWST's spectroscopic capabilities can provide immediate insight into the physical cause behind these surprising results. We propose deep (~8 hr integrations over two pointings) NIRSpec G395M spectroscopy (to restframe EW ~ 10 angstroms) to i) probe high ionization features indicative of top-heavy initial mass functions or accreting supermassive black holes at z > 9; ii) search for accreting supermassive black holes in typical galaxies at z ~ 4-9 detectable via broad Balmer line emission, and iii) probe the stellar-mass growth histories of massive galaxies via absorption line measurements. We can achieve all three goals via this single grating with a 23.3 hr total program, obtaining spectra for a sample of at least 135 galaxies discovered in the CEERS survey.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will take deep ~8hr NIRSpec G395M/F290LP spectroscopy using the Micro-shutter Array (MSA) for two pointings in the Early Release Science CEERS field. We chose the medium resolution grating/filter pairing over the high resolution option in order to boost our S/N in the same exposure time. To enable more science, we will reconfigure both pointings halfway through their full ~8hr observations to change out sources from our science goals 2 and 3. In the MSA, we use three-shutter slitlets, and use a three-nod dither pattern. The full observation for each pointing is made up of 21 groups/integration, 1 integration/exposure, and three nods, each repeated six times to get to our total integration. We explicitly chose an exposure number that was divisible by 6 such that we can account for the three dithers and our reconfiguration halfway through the full time. We have confirmed in the JWST ETC that this exposure time achieves our desired signal-to-noise for all of our science goals, specifically SNR ~ 5 for an EW~10 A line at m=27.5.

The sample is taken from the CEERS NIRCam imaging, which has an astrometric rms of 10 mas, and is suitable for MSA design. Our initial MSA configurations were derived using the MSA Planning Tool. Our final PAs adhere to the micrometeroid avoidance zone. We do have a special requirement that we observe wihtin +/- 2 degrees of our specifically chosen PAs for each of our two pointings, as minor changes in PA do result in a smaller yield of high priority targets.