---
id: 5531
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRISS/SOSS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Quentin Changeat  Co-PIs: Masahiro Ikoma"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "39.26/0.0"
program_title: "Contextualizing our solar-system: Atmospheric characterization of the Jupiter-analogue Kepler-167e"
type: "GO"
---
# 5531 - Contextualizing our solar-system: Atmospheric characterization of the Jupiter-analogue Kepler-167e
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5531
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :---- | :---------------------------------- | :----------------- |
| 1     | NIRISS Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy | (1) Kepler-167 |

## ABSTRACT
Despite a large effort in the detection and characterization of exoplanets, only a few true Jupiter analogues exist and, so far, none have had their atmospheres observed. This is mainly due to their long orbital period and the difficulty in refining their bulk properties, such as the mass. For the first time, Kepler-167 e provides this opportunity. With a planetary radius of about 0.9 RJ, and a planetary mass of about 1 MJ, this exoplanet orbits its K host star in every 1000 days. Our observing program will use the NIRISS instrument onboard JWST to constrain the abundance of methane in Kepler-167 e. This constraint will enable us to estimate the atmospheric metallicity of the planet. Observations have claimed the existence of a correlation between atmospheric metallicity (i.e., bulk metal content) and planetary mass. Such trends, inherently arising from planetary formation and evolution processes, have not yet been verified for cooler planets. Here, our observations will provide a unique window into this currently unexplored planetary regime, allowing us to refine planetary formation and evolution processes, while putting our solar system into a wider context.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION
This program consists in time-series observations of Kepler-167 e, a Jupiter analogue, to obtain the transit spectrum of the planet's atmosphere. We will conduct this observation with the NIRISS SOSS instrument using 30 groups and a total of 697 integrations. NIRISS is ideal to detect CH4, the main predicted observable in such a low temperature atmosphere. Due to the long orbital period of the planet, windows for this observation only occur every 1071 days.