---
id: 5545
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Laia Barrufet"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "10.32/0.0"
program_title: "Dead or alive? Unveiling the nature of massive galaxies in the early Universe"
type: "GO"
---
# 5545 - Dead or alive? Unveiling the nature of massive galaxies in the early Universe
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5545
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                                          | Observing Template                 | Science Target           |
| :--------------------------------------------- | :--------------------------------- | :----------------------- |
| P1TOTALcatv2_v18c2 NODMC, P1TOTALcatv2 v19c1NODMC | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (1) APT_TOTALcat_v4    |
| P2TOTALcatv2_v13c2 NODMC, P2TOTALcatv2 v14c1NODMC | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (1) APT_TOTALcat_v4    |
| P3TOTALcatv4_v9c2NODMC, P3TOTALcatv4 v9c1NODMV | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (1) APT_TOTALcat_v4    |

---

## ABSTRACT

JWST's NIRCam images have unveiled an enigmatic new population of massive red galaxies in the first 1-2 Gyr. Their nature is not clear: are they dusty, quiescent or even AGN? They differ in physical properties but share the common trait of large stellar masses. Given the current challenges posed by early massive galaxies, it is crucial to gain insights from a large unbiased sample. They are red enough and disparate enough that they cannot be well-characterized just from imaging surveys. We use a novel approach to selecting galaxies for a NIRSpec study at z>3 based on their stellar mass from the PRIMER NIRCam survey of the COSMOS field, providing a more complete, unbiased sample of high-mass galaxies.

We propose a high-return, very efficient low-resolution NIRSpec study to unveil the nature of red massive galaxies through spectral analysis and redshifts for ~100 massive galaxies, including three robust quiescent candidates at z>4.5. If confirmed, the identification of these quiescent candidates could mark a significant breakthrough in the detection of passive galaxies, potentially setting a new record for the highest redshift quiescent galaxy.

The NIRSpec spectra of these massive red galaxies will yield redshifts using emission lines for dusty star-forming galaxies and continuum features for quiescent ones, enabling an exploration of the dusty/quiescent/AGN breakdown, the mass-metallicity relationship, mass-size relation, obscured star formation, obscured star-formation rate density and shed light on the high-mass end of the stellar mass function. Our program provides unique and sorely needed insights into the nature of massive red galaxies at very early times.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The primary goal of this program is to obtain 0.86hr deep NIRSpec/PRISM observations of a sample of massive galaxies split over 3 MSA pointings, where we will take 2 configurations each.

NIRSpec exposures:
The observing strategy for the MSA consists of 3 nods in slits exposures. We are taking a series of 70 groups of integrations with the NRSIRS2RAPID readout mode, resulting in a total exposure time of 3107s. By repeating this for a second configuration at the same pointing, we reach a sample of ~100 galaxies. The MSA mask design can only be finalized once the V3 angle of JWST will be assigned.

Background Limited Special Requirement:
One of the requirements of our program is to measure faint Halpha emission lines, which are expected to lie at ~4.5 microns. The peak S/N at this wavelength changes by >10% between the lowest and highest background conditions. Similarly, our F444W images are affected. We, therefore, request ``Background Limited" observations. We set the requirement to "Background no more than 40% above for the spectra to ensure a sufficiently large scheduling window of 2.5 months.