---
id: 5547
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Ciaran Rogers  Co-PIs: Olivier Berne"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "5.14/0.0"
program_title: "Spectral catalogue of externally ionized protoplanetary disks in the Orion Nebular Cluster"
type: "GO"
---
# 5547 - Spectral catalogue of externally ionized protoplanetary disks in the Orion Nebular Cluster
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5547
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label          | Observing Template             | Science Target       |
| :------------- | :----------------------------- | :------------------- |
| 1228_FINAL_6   | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (258) MPT_plan_FINAL |

---

## ABSTRACT

Proplyds are young pre-main sequence stars surrounded by a disk of dust and gas, enshrouded in a larger cocoon of material that has been shaped into a characteristic "teardrop" due to the ionizing UV radiation of nearby massive stars. As such, proplyds are ideal targets to investigate the initial conditions of star and planet formation. The objective of this proposal is to provide an unprecedented near infrared spectroscopic survey of about 50 proplyds in the Orion Nebula Cluster (ONC) using the Micro-shutter Assembly of NIRSpec, and to determine in a self consistent way the mass loss rates associated with accretion and photoevaporation. By combining spectra with the available spatially resolved images of each proplyd from the PDRs4ALL ERS program, we will also place tight constraints on parameters related to the morphology, inclination, and distance to the massive stars in the Trapezium cluster. With spectra of proplyds at various distances from Ori Theta 1C, we will be able to investigate in detail how the photoevaporation mass-loss rate scales with distance, and what this implies for survival timescales of protoplanetary disks and planet formation around these stars. This spectroscopic survey will also establish the chemical inventory of the proplyds, since numerous simple species can be observed in the 1-5 micron range covered by NIRSpec, including CO, OH, H2O, CH+, C2H2, CH3+, etc.. The ONC is the best environment to probe the effect of massive stars on star/planet formation and JWST/NIRSpec is currently the only instrument capable of deciphering how this works.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The Orion Nebular Cluster is observable between 10/Sep/2024 - 07/Nov/2024, 20/Jan/2025 - 19/Mar/2025, and 12/Sep/2025 - 30/Sep/2025. We will use the MSA on NIRSpec to obtain multi-object spectroscopy of approximately 50 proplyds, using high resolution mode (R=2700), and the full wavelength coverage of NIRSpec with grating filter/combinations G140H/F100LP, G235H/F170LP, and G395H/F290LP. The telescope will be nodded 3 times, in order to obtain nebular background spectra to facilitate nebular subtraction from the proplyd spectra. Nodding will also improve signal-to-noise by a factor of ~1.7.
The total time requested is 5.15 hours, with 0.55 hours of science time. The resulting data volume is 4705.98 MB.