---
id: 5551
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Henry Hsieh"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "9.5/0.0"
program_title: "Characterization of Water Outgassing in Main-Belt Comets 133P/Elst-Pizarro and 457P/Lemmon-PANSTARRS"
type: "GO"
---
# 5551 - Characterization of Water Outgassing in Main-Belt Comets 133P/Elst-Pizarro and 457P/Lemmon-PANSTARRS
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5551
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                       | Observing Template          | Science Target |
| :-------------------------- | :-------------------------- | :------------- |
| 133P - NIRCam               | NIRCam Imaging              | (1) 133P       |
| 133P - NIRSpec              | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (1) 133P       |
| 133P - Background - NIRSpec | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (1) 133P       |
| 457P - NIRCam               | NIRCam Imaging              | (2) 457P       |
| 457P - NIRSpec              | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (2) 457P       |
| 457P - Background - NIRSpec | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (2) 457P       |

---

## ABSTRACT

Current small solar system body research suggests that comets and asteroids occupy a continuum, and that inner solar system objects (with orbits inside the orbit of Jupiter) may contain substantial extant ice. This work has profound implications for models of the origin and evolution of water, volatiles, and organics in our solar system. We request JWST GO time to characterize the volatile content of two main-belt comets (MBCs), which are small bodies that orbit in the main asteroid belt yet exhibit comet-like activity (implying the presence of ice), with NIRCam and NIRSpec. With NIRSpec observations proposed here, we will be able to detect water gas production rates from MBCs 133P/Elst-Pizarro and 457P/Lemmon-PANSTARRS as low as ~10^23 molecules/s (5-sigma), exceeding pre-JWST upper limits by three orders of magnitude. NIRCam imaging will allow us to characterize the spatial distributions of our targets' gas and dust comae, providing insights into ejection mechanisms and active area distributions. Together with completed or upcoming Cycle 1 and 2 observations of MBCs, our proposed Cycle 3 observations will address scientific questions about how physical or dynamical properties or orbital circumstances affect outgassing properties, and also facilitate the leveraging of JWST results to the large body of available ground-based MBC data by improving our understanding of the relationship of JWST-derived water production rates to visible dust production rates.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We plan to observe two main-belt comets, 133P and 457P, while they are expected to be active. We request both NIRCam and NIRSpec IFU prism mode observations, both of which will be used to detect water vapor at 2.7 microns in the coma. NIRSpec observations have dedicated background. The NIRCam background can be derived in-scene or from the other module.