---
id: 5553
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Cameron Lemon"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "3.05/0.0"
program_title: "The first changing-multiplicity lensed quasar: a subparsec-scale probe of a quasar at Cosmic Noon"
type: "GO"
---
# 5553 - The first changing-multiplicity lensed quasar: a subparsec-scale probe of a quasar at Cosmic Noon
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5553
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                      | Observing Template    | Science Target     |
| :------------------------- | :-------------------- | :----------------- |
| NIRSPEC PSJ2107-1611       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) PSJ2107-1611   |

---

## ABSTRACT

A standard scheme for quasar structure has been built up over the last 60 years, comprising a supermassive black hole, accretion disk, torus, and broad and narrow line regions. However, constraining these regions' kinematics and geometry remains difficult, particularly at high redshift, where all studies are unresolved. A recent discovery of a quadruply imaged lensed quasar has opened up an unprecedented and exciting probe of the subparsec-scale geometry of a quasar at z=2.7. The system shows four point sources in the optical (to 0.93 microns), yet only two point sources in recent JWST-MIRI imaging (5.6 microns), and follow-up ERIS-NIX Ks imaging (2.1 microns). This is entirely unexpected since lensing is achromatic, but could be explained by the source lying within a parsec of the region that splits the four- and two-image regions. However, there are still several unanswered questions. How is the rest-frame UV of the accretion disk imaged four times, yet its optical emission is not? How can parts of the broad line region be imaged four times, yet the torus, thought to be larger in extent, is not. A full UV to optical rest-frame spectrum is needed to map the various components to the source plane. We therefore propose JWST NIRSpec IFU observations to cover this range. The complete UV-optical spectrum of each quasar image will show when and how the images disappear, provide the first high-resolution image of the rest-frame UV, and probe key emission lines including MgII, H-beta, OIII, and H-alpha. Through detailed lens modelling, we will physically map the accretion disk, broad line region components, and torus, constraining their sizes, locations, and even shapes.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will target a gravitationally lensed quasar, which consists of four point sources surrounding a lensing galaxy. There is also a bright extended arc between and on top of the point sources, from the lensed quasar host galaxy. We will use NIRSpec IFU with the goal of obtaining spectra over the rest-frame optical (i.e. 0.97-3.07 microns observed frame) of this source. We cannot include the entire system within the field of view, and so will leave the most isolated image out of the FoV, while still probing three images, the lensing galaxy, and the host galaxy arc. We will employ two filter/disperser combinations to cover the wavelength range of interest, specifically G140M/F100LP and G235M/F170LP, with the NIRSIRS2 readout pattern, and a 4-point dither for each observation.