---
id: 5554
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Sophia Flury  Co-PIs: Anne Jaskot"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "24.98/0.0"
program_title: "Ionization and Obscuration in LyC Emitters: A MIR Look at Lyman Continuum Escape"
type: "GO"
---
# 5554 - Ionization and Obscuration in LyC Emitters: A MIR Look at Lyman Continuum Escape
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5554
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                          | Observing Template                 | Science Target                |
| :----------------------------- | :--------------------------------- | :---------------------------- |
| J0958+2025                     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) J0958+2025                |
| J0958+2025 Bkg                 | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) J0958+2025-BACKGROUND     |
| J1442-0209                     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) J1442-0209                |
| J1442-0209 Bkg                 | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) J1442-0209-BACKGROUND     |
| J1243+4646                     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (5) J1243+4646                |
| J1243+4646 Bkg                 | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (6) J1243+4646-BACKGROUND     |
| J0036+0033                     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (7) J0036+0033                |
| J0036+0033 Bkg                 | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (8) J0036+0033-BACKGROUND     |
| J0036+0033 - repeat of obs 7   | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (7) J0036+0033                |
| J0036+0033 Bkg - repeat of obs 8 | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (8) J0036+0033-BACKGROUND     |
| J1240+2127                     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (9) J1240+2127                |
| J1240+2127 Bkg                 | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (10) J1240+2127-BACKGROUND    |
| J1333+6246                     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (11) J1333+6246               |
| J1333+6246 Bkg                 | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (12) J1333+6246-BACKGROUND    |
| J1257+4102                     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (13) J1257+4102               |
| J1257+4102 Bkg                 | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (14) J1257+4102-BACKGROUND    |
| J1152+3400                     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (15) J1152+3400               |
| J1152+3400 Bkg                 | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (16) J1152+3400-BACKGROUND    |

---

## ABSTRACT

At z>6, galaxies transformed the universe by releasing ionizing, Lyman continuum (LyC) photons and reionizing the intergalactic medium (IGM). However, which galaxies dominated reionization and how their LyC photons escaped remains unknown. Because of the high IGM opacity during the epoch of reionization, we can only study the physics of LyC escape at lower redshift. We propose the first analysis of the MIR spectral properties of LyC-emitting galaxies. Using full-coverage MIRI MRS spectra of 4 of the strongest LyC emitters at z=0.3 and a matched control sample of 4 non-emitters, we will investigate the role of the ionizing spectrum and dust content in LyC escape. The full MIRI spectra will capture a suite of nebular lines from different ionization states, which span the energies of the predicted ionizing spectra. These lines will constrain the shape of the ionizing spectrum and show whether LyC-emitting galaxies are characterized by a harder radiation field or particular ionizing sources. Emission from the MIR dust continuum, PAH features, and H2 lines will demonstrate whether LyC emitters have weaker global dust absorption, a different grain size distribution, or a deficiency in neutral material. By connecting ionizing photon production, dust absorption, and LyC escape, these observations will provide new insights into the physics of LyC escape and reionization.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose JWST/MIRI MRS observations of 8 galaxies at z=0.3, all of which have HST COS spectra of the rest-frame Lyman continuum. We plan to cover the full MIR spectrum and therefore request observations in each of the three MIRI wavelength range settings. Our sources are compact (expected FWHM < 0.43 arcsec), but they may have extended low surface brightness nebular emission. We therefore adopt the extended source four-point dither pattern, and we use the minimum number of integrations. Because of the possible spatial extent of our targets, we require dedicated background exposures in a non-interruptible sequence for the same exposure time as our sources. We choose background regions away from objects detected in the SDSS, Gaia, 2MASS, and WISE surveys, and we require that the edge of the Channel 4 field-of- view be > 50 kpc away at our target's redshift during the background observation. To improve astrometric accuracy, we have chosen to enable the recommended simultaneous MIRI imaging using the F770W, F1000W, and F1130W filters to improve astrometric accuracy for the science targets. We reduce the number of groups and change the imaging subarray as needed to avoid saturating any objects within 140 arcsec of our targets or background pointings. For the target with the longest exposure time, we reduce the exposure time for the simultaneous imaging to stay under the lower data excess threshold. We do not need target acquisitions, as we do not require our pointing to be accurate to within 0.14”. We request low background observations for four targets, which are background-limited, as indicated by ETC calculations with low- vs. high-background options. Our total requested observation is 8.5 hours for science and background observations for a total request of 24.98 hours, including overhead.