---
id: 5629
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 6
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Mariska Kriek  Co-PIs: Aliza Beverage and Chloe Cheng"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "40.24/0.0"
program_title: "Extremely deep spectroscopy of quiescent galaxies at z~0.7: A direct measurement of the stellar initial mass function beyond the low-redshift universe"
type: "GO"
---
# 5629 - Extremely deep spectroscopy of quiescent galaxies at z~0.7: A direct measurement of the stellar initial mass function beyond the low-redshift universe
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5629
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :------------------------- | :----------------------------- | :--------------------- |
| imf_dither3_13targs_open   | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (6) IMF_apt_catalog_v4 |
| imf_dither3_13targs_open   | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (6) IMF_apt_catalog_v4 |

## ABSTRACT

The stellar initial mass function (IMF), which describes the distribution of the birth masses of stars, is of paramount importance to galaxy evolution. Exploiting the universality of the IMF shape, we infer fundamental parameters, such as stellar mass and star formation rate, and accordingly unravel how galaxies build up over time. However, in the centers of very massive elliptical galaxies, the IMF is distinctly different from what is observed in the Milky Way. With its excess of low-mass stars, this IMF would increase the inferred stellar masses by a factor of 2-3.

The cores of massive elliptical galaxies are thought to have formed at early times and thus we expect distant massive galaxies to also have a bottom-heavy IMF. However, this bottom-heavy IMF yields inferred stellar masses that exceed the dynamical masses. To solve this puzzle and derive more precise stellar masses and star formation rate of distant massive galaxies, we propose to directly measure the IMF in nine z~0.7 galaxies using ultra-deep spectroscopy with the NIRSpec-MSA. These observations will also yield stellar mass profiles, resolved stellar kinematics, and thus robust dynamical masses. Our program will (i) reveal whether the IMF was already bottom heavy in z~0.7 quiescent galaxies, (ii) yield the most robust baryonic-to-dark matter mass ratios in z~0.7 quiescent galaxies to date, (iii) provide new insights into the build up of the cores of massive elliptical galaxies, and (iv) assess other explanations for the "unphysical" stellar-to-dynamical mass ratios of distant quiescent galaxies. We will also observe 8 quiescent galaxies at 1<z<2 and 15 star-forming galaxies at similar and higher redshifts.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to obtain deep continuum, rest-frame optical, medium-resolution spectroscopy of quiescent galaxies at z~0.7, using NIRSpec-MSA and the G140M-F100LP dispersion-filter combination. Quiescent galaxies and star-forming galaxies at higher redshift are used as fillers. HST imaging (F814W) is available for all targets and thus no pre-imaging is needed. Furthermore, all primary targets will be covered by the COSMOS-Web program in Cycle 1.

We will use 3-shutter slits and a (custom) 2-position nodding pattern. We will extend the slits to 4 or 5 shutters, where possible. We will also apply a fixed dither of 1 shutter in the dispersion direction, to minimize impacts of detector defects. Our current mask design does not allow primary targets in areas affected by open shutters.

Our field can be observed for a limited PA range (64-85 degrees and 234-254 degrees). Our most optimal mask has a PA of 67.0 degrees, and targets 9 primary galaxies. Due to the high density, most PAs will observe a minimum of 8 primary targets.

We plan to observe this pointing/configuration for 30 hrs, divided over three visits. Each visit consists of 24 or 25 integrations of 1473.478 seconds each, with 20 groups per integration. We need exactly the same PA for each visit, so we can use the same mask design. We have two nod and two dither positions. We will use the NRSIRS2 read-out mode. Total integration time is 40 hours.