---
id: 5634
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Robin Baeyens  Co-PIs: Jean-Michel Desert"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "7.98/0.0"
program_title: "Clear as day: Constraining the thermal structure and photochemistry on WASP-39 b's day side"
type: "GO"
---
# 5634 - Clear as day: Constraining the thermal structure and photochemistry on WASP-39 b's day side
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5634
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template            | Science Target |
|-------|-------------------------------|----------------|
|       | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) WASP-39    |

## ABSTRACT
WASP-39 b has rapidly evolved into a benchmark planet for observational and theoretical studies of hot exoplanet atmospheres. The reasons are clear. This planet has yielded the most precisely measured transmission spectrum to date, leading to a spectral detection of CO2 at an unprecedented significance of 26 sigma, and the first evidence of photochemistry occurring on an exoplanet through the detection of SO2. Such a rich dataset demands an equally rich context in order to provide a suitable interpretation of the physical and photochemical phenomena occurring in its atmosphere. Currently, such context is still lacking, given that the thermal structure of WASP-39 b is unconstrained.
We propose to observe an emission spectrum of WASP-39 b using JWST/NIRSpec G395H in order to constrain the vertical temperature-pressure profile, and to measure the abundances of SO2 and CO2 at the planetary day side. With this observation, we will be able to determine the day-side temperature, energy redistribution, and vertical thermal gradient of WASP-39 b, thereby confirming or ruling out the formation of a stratosphere through heating by sulfuric species. In tandem with the measured SO2 and CO2 abundances, we will leverage this thermodynamic context to provide a precise estimate of the metallicity, and investigate the production and transport of photochemical species in exoplanet atmospheres in further detail.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION
We request to observe a single secondary eclipse of WASP-39 b with the NIRSpec G395H/F290LP grating and filter configuration, in the Bright Object Time Series (BOTS) mode. The wavelength range is 2.8 to 5.2 micron.
The eclipse duration of WASP-39 b is 2.8032 hours and we require an out-of-eclipse baseline observation of 1.15 times this amount. This amounts to a total observation request (not including overheads) of 6.03 hours. We adopt the NRSRAPID readout pattern with 70 groups per integration, which gives a maximum saturation of 78 %.
We do not require a separate acquisition target, but use WASP-39 itself for target acquisition (noting that saturation of the central pixel is not detrimental toward the target acquisition).
The instrument, mode, integration, and TA settings are the same as those used for the succesful transit observation of WASP-39 b in ERS programme 1366. The requested observation would yield the first eclipse measurement of WASP-39 b with JWST.