---
id: 5637
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging  NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Barbara Mazzilli Ciraulo"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "7.83/0.0"
program_title: "High-resolution mapping of the very cold superwind in ESO484-036"
type: "GO"
---
# 5637 - High-resolution mapping of the very cold superwind in ESO484-036
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5637
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                              | Observing Template | Science Target     |
| :--------------------------------- | :----------------- | :----------------- |
| MIRI imaging of ESO484036          | MIRI Imaging       | (1) ESO-484-36     |
| MIRI BKG imaging of ESO484036      | MIRI Imaging       | (2) ESO-484-36-BKG |
| MIRI Short imaging of ESO484036    | MIRI Imaging       | (1) ESO-484-36     |
| NIRCam imaging of ESO484-036       | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) ESO-484-36     |
| NIRCam Short imaging of ESO484-036 | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) ESO-484-36     |

## ABSTRACT

Galactic-scale winds play a key role in regulating star formation by removing gas from the disk, and are a top-tier component to all models of galaxy evolution. Despite this fact, there is no theoretical consensus for how, and how effectively, galactic winds actually remove the gas. Moreover, observations of winds are quite rare, and typically focus on the nearest outflows, which have similar properties. What theory does to describe the energetics of this important process is constrained by a small number of galaxies. We need more observations of the full range of outflows in order to properly include them in galaxy evolution models, especially those at describing the z>1 Universe when star formation was much more extreme. We propose to use JWST for an in-depth analysis of ESO484-036, a nearby starburst that hosts a galactic-scale wind with neutral Na D emission extending over multiple kiloparsecs. This is a rare feature, implying the wind is much colder and more dust rich than other outflows. Theory argues that cooling is a key physical mechanism setting outflow kinematics, which makes this target specifically interesting. We will use MIRI and NIRCam imaging to resolve the small-scale structure of the wind, and to identify dust heating and destruction in the wind using PAH line ratios. Existing VLT/MUSE and in progress ALMA observations make this project the first multiphase study of a Na I D emission outflow. ESO484-036 is expected to have a much colder wind, comparison to Cycle 1 observations of outflow galaxies M82 and NGC253 will suggest trends in cloud scale properties of outflows with the total cold gas mass.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The primary objective of the program is to conduct a thorough analysis of the cold galactic wind hosted in ESO484-036. We use NIRCam imaging and MIRI imaging. The main aims of the project are to characterise the small-scale substructure of the wind and study the PAH abundances and line ratios. Since we target both the bright regions in the disk and the faint filaments in the wind, we include a short exposure to be used for the disk and avoid saturation, and a longer exposure to target the fainter emission in the wind. We will describe each instrument use below.
MIRI : The MIRI imaging uses F770W, F1130W and F2100W. The two first filters will measure the PAH feature and the third one targets the warm dust continuum. The MIRI field of view will cover the disk and the wind. For the shallow observations we use 6-dithers with CYCLING pattern, on 5 Groups per integration and 1 integration per exposure, using the SUB256 subarray. For the extended observations, we use 30 Groups/integration, 1 integration/exposure, and the FULL subarray; in order to get sufficient S/N on the regions where the wind is observed in the VLT/MUSE observations. We have placed the MIRI imaging into an uninterruptible sequence in order to couple to the background exposures.
NIRCam : The NIRCam imaging, with Module B, uses F335M to capture the small grain PAH emission. F150W, F200W and F430M are used to have a very good estimate of the stellar continuum. Again, we employ a strategy in which we take long integrations to target the emission in the wind. For these, we use 3 primary dithers and 3 small dithers, on 5 Groups/integration, 1 integration/exposure. We use the FULL subarray and the MEDIUM2 readout pattern. For the shallow imaging, we use 3 primary and 3 small dithers as well, but 4 Groups/integration, 1 integration/exposure and the SUB640 subarray with the RAPID readout pattern.