---
id: 5650
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Luca Matra  Co-PIs: David Wilner"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "5.08/0.0"
program_title: "A multi-wavelength view of warm dust in the eta Crucis planetary system: inward transport or inner belts?"
type: "GO"
---
# 5650 - A multi-wavelength view of warm dust in the eta Crucis planetary system: inward transport or inner belts?
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5650
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label             | Observing Template | Science Target    |
| :---------------- | :----------------- | :---------------- |
| Background        | MIRI Imaging       | (1) Background    |
| PSF Reference-roll1 | MIRI Imaging       | (3) HD-105298     |
| Target-roll1      | MIRI Imaging       | (2) eta-Cru       |
| Target-roll2      | MIRI Imaging       | (2) eta-Cru       |
| PSF Reference-roll2 | MIRI Imaging       | (3) HD-105298     |

## ABSTRACT

Determining the origin of warm dust interior to outer exocometary belts in planetary systems is our only chance to test whether inward transport of icy material to the terrestrial planet region is taking place in nearby planetary systems, and determine the physical mechanism driving it. We propose a JWST/MIRI F2550W resolved imaging program to investigate the structure of warm dust interior to an outer belt in the nearby eta Crucis system. This system has a rare ALMA mm-wave resolved detection of warm dust as well as its outer belt, enabling the first JWST+ALMA joint resolved analysis of warm dust in a planetary system. Our main goal with JWST/MIRI imaging (0.8" resolution) is to determine the origin of the warm dust, by resolving either (1) an inner belt or belts, with planet-induced gap(s), or (2) a continuous inner disk of emission, which would prove that inward transport of icy material from the outer belt is ongoing. In the latter case, joint modelling of the new JWST/MIRI image and the existing ALMA image will deliver an independent measurement of the size distribution for the warm dust and the cold belt - distinguishing whether transport is induced by Poynting-Robertson (P-R) drag, or inward scattering. Overall, this pilot study on eta Crucis will uniquely leverage the high resolution capabilities of both JWST and ALMA, and demonstrate that multiwavelength resolved imaging is the key to understand the link, if any, between warm and cold dust in planetary systems.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We request two non-interruptible sequences, each with identical visits on target eta Cru and PSF Reference star HD105298, which have similar brightnesses and spectral shape, and are located ~2.9 degrees apart. We require use of the JWST/MIRI instrument, with filter F2550W, in its BRIGHTSKY subarray mode to avoid strong saturation by the central star. Even in this mode, we have partial saturation with 5 groups on target (3 usable) on the central pixels within 0.4" of the star (with the conservative ETC saturation limits), but we prefer this compared to using the SUB256 subarray because we need the large BRIGHTSKY field of view (56") with the LARGE 4-point dither pattern to include the entirety of emission from the extended disk (~14" diameter expected) while keeping the dither pattern size large enough for effective background subtraction.
Crucial to the program is accurate PSF subtraction to reveal low surface brightness structure from the outer belt and the warm dust disks, our main science goal, which is why we request identical observations of a suitable standard star. We choose a number of integrations per dither well below the dwell time, and request two sequences to achieve the SNR needed on low-surface-brightness disk emission in our simulated MIRI observations for each of our model scenarios.