---
id: 5709
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Yinuo Han  Co-PIs: Mark Wyatt"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "3.33/0.0"
program_title: "What causes warm dust interior to planetesimal belts?"
type: "GO"
---
# 5709 - What causes warm dust interior to planetesimal belts?
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5709
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label              | Observing Template | Science Target     |
| :----------------- | :----------------- | :----------------- |
| Gam Oph - F2550W   | MIRI Imaging       | (1) -gam-Oph       |
| Gam Oph - F1500W   | MIRI Imaging       | (1) -gam-Oph       |
| Background - F2550W| MIRI Imaging       | (3) Background     |
| Background - F1500W| MIRI Imaging       | (3) Background     |
| Zet Ser - F2550W   | MIRI Imaging       | (2) -zet-Ser       |
| Zet Ser - F1500W   | MIRI Imaging       | (2) -zet-Ser       |

---

## ABSTRACT

One of the most notable findings of JWST in exoplanetary systems so far has been the discovery of a continuous distribution of warm dust permeating the space interior to the planetesimal belt in Fomalhaut. An intermediate dust ring was also discovered within this dust distribution that pointed to the presence of perturbing planets, highlighting the unique capability of JWST to probe this intermediate region of planetary systems. Such a discovery has prompted a re-evaluation of our understanding of debris disk structures more generally, while opening up a new method to search for planets by looking at planetary perturbations within continuous inner warm dust distributions. In this proposal, we aim to test whether there exists a common mechanism for causing this inner warm dust, which may be ubiquitous in debris disks. We target the Gamma Oph system, which is the best target to image with MIRI to probe this inner dust distribution alongside Fomalhaut and Vega which have been observed as part of GTO programs. We will be able to test whether these systems host inner warm dust commonly explained by Poynting-Robertson drag, as has been modelled in Fomalhaut, or whether a more diverse range of mechanisms are at play, such as comet delivery or a two-belt configuration analogous to the Solar System. In all possible scenarios, we will be able to constrain the planetary architecture in Gamma Oph to compare with Fomalhaut and Vega, leading to a more complete understanding of debris disk structures in this new region enabled by JWST and the architecture of otherwise invisible planets.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Our observations consist of MIRI imaging of the debris disk of Gamma Oph. The MIRI observations will be carried out with the F1500W and F2550W filters. Both are sensitive to the inner structure of the disk, revealing the radial distribution of the dust interior to the planetesimal belt at 100 au and whether asymmetries are present. An integration time of ~10 min and ~7 min with the F2550W and F1500W provides a high S/N to enable subsequent dynamical modelling in combination with ALMA data to determine the origin of dust and constrain the architecture of any perturbing planets. The spatially resolved mid-infrared spectral index between the two filters will constrain the dust composition and grain size to test whether they are consistent with our model hypotheses. Detector subarrays are chosen to avoid saturation with 5 groups. The reference star Zet Ser will be observed at a similar S/N to enable efficient PSF subtraction. ADI is not applied to avoid removing any disk emission.