---
id: 5749
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Alessandra Candian  Co-PIs: Jan Cami and Els Peeters"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "5.26/0.0"
program_title: "The Red Rectangle: a space laboratory for the formation and evolution of interstellar carbon material"
type: "GO"
---
# 5749 - The Red Rectangle: a space laboratory for the formation and evolution of interstellar carbon material
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5749
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label               | Observing Template                 | Science Target     |
| :------------------ | :--------------------------------- | :----------------- |
| HD 44179 GO1 MIRI   | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) HD-44179-GO1   |
| HD 44179 P1 MIRI    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) HD-44179-P1    |
| HD 44179 P2 MIRI    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) HD-44179-P2    |
| HD 44179 P3 MIRI    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) HD-44179-P3    |
| HD 44179 BKG MIRI   | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (5) HD-44179-BKG   |

## ABSTRACT

Astrophysical dust grains and molecules are fundamental components of the Universe. Their interactions with gases, photons, sub-atomic particles, and cosmic rays drive the evolution of the interstellar medium from the first generations of stars to star/planet formation. Large carbon molecules and dust particles exhibit numerous and omnipresent spectral signatures imprinted on astronomical spectra from the UV to the IR: 1) the very strong 2175 angstrom absorption band in the interstellar extinction curve; 2) the blue luminescence - optical emission peaking at 380 nm; 3) the diffuse interstellar bands - hundreds of unassigned optical and near-IR diffuse Galactic and extragalactic interstellar absorption bands; 4) the extended red emission - broad optical emission between 500-1000 nm widespread through the Galaxy; 5) the aromatic infrared band emission dominating the IR spectra of star-forming regions, ISM, and galaxies. A key difficulty in figuring out how these phenomena and their carriers are related is that it has not been possible to study these phenomena at the same time in the same object - until now. We propose to use the incredible spatial and spectral resolution of JWST to obtain MIRI-MRS spectra across the Red Rectangle, a unique nebula surrounding an evolved star, that exhibits all these signatures of carbonaceous dust at the same time. These spectra will, for the first time, connect these important interstellar carbonaceous materials in a well characterised environment, reveal their IR spectroscopic fingerprints, bring us closer to deciphering dust formation and photo-processing and to identifying new species of the interstellar carbon inventory.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The Red Rectangle (HD44179) will be observed with MIRI MRS at 4 locations within the nebula. The entire MIRI-MRS wavelength coverage is observed (SHORT/MEDIUM/LONG), and parallel imaging is included in three filters: F770W, F1000W, F1130W. MIRI MRS dithering is implemented for all observations as a 4-point extended source dither. Dedicated background observations are taken. We set a position angle constraint to select one of the two observing windows in order to avoid the Micrometeoroid Avoidance Zone.