---
id: 5765
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Elisabeth Matthews  Co-PIs: Polychronis Patapis and Niall Whiteford"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "4.11/0.0"
program_title: "Two for the price of one: complete spectroscopy from 0.7 to 23 micron of the benchmark brown dwarfs Eps Ind BA and BB"
type: "GO"
---
# 5765 - Two for the price of one: complete spectroscopy from 0.7 to 23 micron of the benchmark brown dwarfs Eps Ind BA and BB
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5765
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label              | Observing Template                  | Science Target |
| :----------------- | :---------------------------------- | :------------- |
| Eps-INDI-MRS       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) -eps-Ind-B |
| Eps-INDI-NIRSpec   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy            | (1) -eps-Ind-B |

---

## ABSTRACT

The binary brown dwarf Eps Ind BA/BB is a key benchmark system with well measured mass, age and metallicity, and serves as a unique laboratory for comparative studies of brown dwarf atmospheres. We will use spectroscopic observations of Eps Ind BA/BB to carry out several crucial tests of brown dwarf formation, evolution and atmospheric chemistry, such as the following: a stringent comparison of mass, bolometric luminosity, and age against models; measurement of the 15N/14N ratio as a tracer of formation; testing the ability of retrievals to infer accurate C/O ratios; a comparison of brown dwarf cloud properties, in a region where silicate clouds in the atmosphere are expected to disperse. This work will underpin broader efforts to understand brown dwarf and exoplanet atmospheres, and the tail end of the IMF.
Eps Ind BA/BB are the 2nd and 3rd closest T dwarfs to earch, allowing excellent signal-to noise spectroscopic measurements. The pair has a well-constrained orbit giving extremely precise mass measurements (<0.5% accuracy), and a favorable semi-major axis allowing the pair to be spatially resolved with JWST. They are co-moving with a main-sequence star, providing an independent measure of the system age and metallicity. That star itself hosts a wide-orbit super-Jupiter planet - potentially allowing for the comparative studies of three substellar companions with the same age, metallicity and formation environment.
We will collect a complete spectrum of the brown dwarf binary from 0.7um to ~23um with NIRSpec and MIRI, spatially resolved to ~12um. These observations will provide a rich legacy JWST dataset.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will collect spectroscopic observations of Eps Ind BA/BB using the NIRSpec Integral Field Unit (IFU) and the MIRI Medium Resolution Spectrometer. We will center the brown dwarf in the field of view.
The NIRSpec IFU observation will use the G140H, G235H and the G395H grisms, with an exposure time of 900s for each grism. We will use four dither positions to improve sensitivity and reduce detector effects.
The MIRI MRS observation will be performed in all four channels with all three dispersers, and we will observe for 777s for each disperser (divided over four dither positions). In addition simultaneous imaging will be performed with the MIRI imager to provide astrometry that will enable accurate reconstruction of the dithered MRS observations. Similarly to the NIRSpec IFU observation, the dither positions will improve the sensitivity and reduce detector effects.

---