---
id: 5766
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Virginia Cuomo  Co-PIs: Alfonso Aguerri and Mahmood Roshan"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "24.92/0.0"
program_title: "Probing the bar slowing down across cosmic time"
type: "GO"
---
# 5766 - Probing the bar slowing down across cosmic time
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5766
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label              | Observing Template        | Science Target   |
| :----------------- | :------------------------ | :--------------- |
| gal EGS-24154      | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (1) EGS-24154    |
| gal EGS-12823      | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (2) EGS-12823    |

---

## ABSTRACT

Bars are stellar structures common in the majority of galaxies in the nearby Universe. The secular evolution of barred galaxies is governed by the angular frequency of the bar rotation around the galaxy centre, i.e. the bar pattern speed. This parameter is strongly linked to the dark matter content in the galaxy inner regions, due to dark matter halos slowing down bars through dynamical friction. Observational studies of barred galaxies find that bars rotate fast, while simulations of galaxy evolution in the cold dark matter framework suggest that bars slow down excessively. This means a tension between fast bars and the standard cosmological paradigm. Several explanations have been proposed for the paucity of slow bars in the local Universe, but the lack of direct measurements of bar pattern speed for galaxies at z > 0.1 makes it impossible to test the efficiency of dynamical friction and the bar slowing down across cosmic time. We propose to use the new capabilities of JWST to measure directly for the first time the bar pattern speed of two recently discovered barred galaxies at z > 1, some of the furthest bars known up to date. The proposed observations based on near-infrared integral-field spectroscopy will allow us to compare directly values of bar pattern speed at the dawn of bar formation with analog results in the local Universe. This will put stringent constraints on the evolution of the bar pattern speed across cosmic time, therefore limiting the nature (or even existence) of dark matter in galaxies.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This program consists of NIRSpec IFU observations of two barred galaxies at z>1, recently discovered as some of the furthest bars known up to date. We will obtain very deep (up to 23.4 mag/arcsec^2 in F115W-JWST filter - corresponding to 22 mag/arcsec^2 in F444W-JSWT filter from Fig. 4 in Technical Justification, which is better suited to quantify the properties of bars) medium-resolution (R~1000) observations with G140M/F070LP. This allows us to target the most relevant spectral absorption features in the rest-frame optical wavelength range (i.e., Hbeta, Mg, Fe) to apply the Tremaine & Weinberg method (1984, hereafter TW) to derive bar pattern speed and extract stellar kinematics (see Scientific Justification for the details of the methodology). In order to achieve our scientific goals, we require at least S/N>5 outside the bar-dominated region of the galaxies (r~0.8-1 arcsec), where the surface brightness of the galaxy is 23.4 mag/arcsec^2 in F115W-JWST filter and the light of the disc dominates. We estimated the exposure times with the JWST ETC 3.0. To describe the light distribution of the disc of our galaxies outside the bar-dominated region, we adopted a template spectrum of a typical late-type spiral galaxy, a power law (with n=1) modeling the surface brightness profile, and a redshift z~1.2, as representative for our selected galaxies. Our goal is to get a minimum signal-to-noise ratio per spectral resolution element in the inner disc region of ~2.5. This is acheved in ~10h exposure times per each galaxy. We will then bin ~4 spaxels in the disc region to reach the minimum signal-to-noise ratio of 5 per bin to safely extract the stellar line-of-sight velocity and build the stellar line-of-sight velocity maps. In particular, we will adopt a Voronoi binning (or based on sectors of circles) to obtain a reasonable number of bins in the inner disc region (i.e. a minimum of 4 bins) with a sufficent S/N to measure the stellar velocity. We then checked that the signal does not saturate in the central region of the galaxy, which we modeled with a Sérsic surface brightness profile.