---
id: 5782
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Adelaide Claeyssens  Co-PIs: Brian Siana"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "16.23/0.0"
program_title: "Abell 1689: Opening a Unique Window on Lensed Galaxies at Cosmic Noon"
type: "GO"
---
# 5782 - Abell 1689: Opening a Unique Window on Lensed Galaxies at Cosmic Noon
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5782
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :---- | :----------------- | :------------- |
|       | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) ACO-1689   |

## ABSTRACT

Galaxies at cosmic noon (CN, z~2) are characterized by irregular morphologies dominated by compact and bright stellar clumps. The role of these clumps in galaxy morphological evolution and their contribution to the total galaxy mass buildup are so far poorly understood and widely debated. The combination of JWST/NIRCam high sensitivity and resolution with the strong gravitational lensing effect produced by galaxy clusters has opened a new window on the internal physical processes at play in distant galaxies. We propose deep NIRCam images of the massive lensing cluster Abell1689 to probe the physical properties of star-forming clumps and galaxies at CN, a key time for galaxy evolution. A1689 is far superior to the Hubble FF clusters to study CN galaxies at it is known to produce extremely high magnifications over a large volume of Universe at 1<z<4.5. These observations will enable us to study >1000 galaxies over a wide range of masses and resolve their clump and star cluster populations across CN down to 1 pc scale and 10^5 solar mass. By extending the wavelength coverage to the IR and combining broad-band and medium-band filters, we will be able to derive robust clump/cluster physical properties (size, age, mass, boundness). Clumps trace star-formation and play a major role in the stellar feedback at a galactic scale. We will answer questions related to diverse formation mechanisms and survival time scales of clumps as a function of galaxy mass. We expect to detect young and intermediate age proto-globular clusters in the many giant arcs produced by A1689, enabling us to constrain their redshift formation.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The goal of this program is to obtain deep NIRCam broadband (F115W, F150W, F200W, F277W and F356W) and medium-band (F182M and F300M) imaging of the highly magnified regions behind the lensing cluster, Abell 1689. To obtain 5-sigma point source sensitivities (in apertures matching the PSF resolution) of ~29.7 (AB mag), all broadband filters have an exposure time of 7537s, except for F356W, which has twice the exposure time, 15,074s. The medium band filters have ~double the exposure time, 14,881s. This is to achieve similar point-source sensitivity (in f_nu) in all filters, and to achieve the highest surface brightness sensitivity to light from older stellar populations at Cosmic Noon (1<z<4.5).

Because the area of high lensing magnification is so large in the target cluster, we choose not to center the cluster in one module. Instead, we will image it in both modules and use a Fullbox 6 Tight dither pattern to cover the gap between modules. This will result in decreased (1/3) exposure in the very center of the cluster, but that area is lower priority as it has the large cluster galaxies and lower magnification.

For the filters with ~7.5ks of total exposure, we're choosing to use 8 groups of the SHALLOW4 readout pattern. For the longer exposures in the medium band, we're using 4 groups, 2 integrations with the MEDIUM8 readout pattern. To better sample the PSF at the shorter wavelengths, we are using 3 sub-pixel positions at each dither pointing.

We use a special requirement to constrain the PA to 116. This position angle avoids significant contaminaiton from "claws" and also aligns the longer side of the mosaic with the area of enhanced magnification of Abell 1689 (which is also elongated NE-SW).