---
id: 5791
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging  NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Michael Kuhn"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "20.97/0.0"
program_title: "The Crucible of Planet Formation - Protoplanetary Disks in the Extreme Environment of Trumpler 14"
type: "GO"
---
# 5791 - The Crucible of Planet Formation - Protoplanetary Disks in the Extreme Environment of Trumpler 14
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5791
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
### 1. OBSERVATIONS Table: Labels, Observing Template, and Science Targets

| Folder | Label                     | Observing Template               | Science Target           |
| :----- | :------------------------ | :------------------------------- | :----------------------- |
| 2      | NIRCam Pre-Imaging        | NIRCam Imaging                   | (1) CL-TRUMPLER-14       |
| 6      | JWST Tr14 RefVet          | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (6) Tr14 RefVetted       |

---

## ABSTRACT

The evolution of disks around young stellar objects governs the character of the planetary systems that form. In massive star-forming regions, UV irradiation drives mass loss from disks, which could affect the resulting planets. Although a significant fraction of planetary systems (including our Solar System) are thought to have arisen in extreme environments, the nearest (best studied) star-forming regions lack significant UV radiation fields, meaning that we must study more distant regions accessible for spectroscopic study only with a sensitive facility like JWST. We propose NIRSPEC/MSA observations of the Trumpler 14 cluster, a uniquely rich starburst cluster in the Solar neighborhood with a UV radiation field a thousand times higher than in the Orion Nebula. The MOS observations of the cluster will produce a sample of ~340 cluster-member spectra (down to M=0.08 Msun). The near-infrared spectra will provide a statistical sample to determine 1) How does the disk fraction vary with local FUV strength and stellar mass? And 2) How do disk properties (e.g., CO temperatures, accretion rates, and mass-loss rates) vary with the environment? High signal-to-noise near-infrared spectroscopy allows the spectral classification of the stars and a characterization of accretion and disk irradiation via atomic and molecular emission. The spacing of cluster members in Tr14 makes efficient use of the MOS shutters. NIRCam pre-imaging, together with existing VLT/HAWK-I and SPHERE images, will be used to better characterize the total stellar population of Tr 14. This unique dataset will be the first of its kind and will serve as a benchmark for disks in extreme conditions.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This proposal aims at obtaining imaging and NIRSpec/MOS spectroscopy of the massive young star cluster Tr14 in the Carina nebula. This cluster is the nearest star-forming region where proto-planetary disks are exposed to extreme amounts of FUV radiation, ideal for studying the effect of photoevaporation on planet-forming disks.

We propose NIRCAM/LW F466N pre-imaging to obtain high-precision positions of low- and intermediate-mass members of Tr14. This data will be used with existing VLT near-infrared observations to identify the disk excess emission via color-color diagram selection. NIRCAM/SW F212N is requested to detect the evaporating disks via H2 emission. Due to the bright O stars in the center of Tr 14, we have selected narrow-band filters to perform the imaging, minimizing the effect of saturation.

We propose NIRSPEC MOS spectroscopy in two wavelength settings: G140H/F100LP: to detect the stellar absorption lines of the intermediate and low-mass stars and derive their spectral types, effective temperature, and masses. G395H/F290LP: to detect and characterize the disk emission using emission lines of ionized hydrogen and molecular emission. Observations with 8 MSA configurations are requested to obtain spectra for a sample of >300 cluster members with FUV irradiation ranging from 10^3-10^7 G0.

The resulting spectroscopic database will be the largest spectroscopic dataset for irradiated and photoevaporating protoplanetary disks. Analysis of the spectra will include modeling disk continuum and spectral lines to infer disk structure, temperature, and mass-loss rate. Statistical analysis will be used to investigate correlations between disk properties and FUV irradiation, stellar mass, age, and environment. The derived disk properties will be compared to theoretical models of photoevaporating disks, and the disk-population statistics will be compared to results in numerical simulations. The results from this study will demonstrate whether high FUV environments have a statistically significant effect on the properties of inner disks, where Earth-like planets may be expected to form.