---
id: 5814
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/FS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Michael Fitzgerald"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "11.25/0.0"
program_title: "Auroral chemistry in the atmospheres of T dwarfs"
type: "GO"
---
# 5814 - Auroral chemistry in the atmospheres of T dwarfs
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5814
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label          | Observing Template                 | Science Target                    |
| :------------- | :--------------------------------- | :-------------------------------- |
| SIMP0136       | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy    | (1) SIMP-J013656.5+093347.3       |
| BDR 1750       | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy    | (4) VCS2020-BDR-J1750+3809        |
| 2MASS 1237     | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy    | (2) 2MASS-J12373919+6526148       |
| 2MASS 1019     | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy    | (3) 2MASS-J10190575+6529526       |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose to obtain high-resolution, L and M band spectroscopy of five T dwarfs with JWST /NIRSpec. These T dwarfs possess strong evidence of auroral activity in the form of polarized radio emission from an electron-cyclotron maser process. Through a cross-correlation and subsequent atmospheric retrieval analysis, we will place constraints on auroral chemistry, primarily the production of H3+, and the compositions of these dwarfs. Successful detection of H3+ will enable characterization of the otherwise invisible upper atmospheres of these objects. Our proposal will help to understand the conditions in the upper atmospheres of objects at the transition between stellar and planetary masses, and the effect that powerful magnetosphere processes can have on them. At the most fundamental level, our proposal will explore why some BDs appear to have extremely powerful aurora, what consequence those processes have on their atmospheres, and what similar processes may be occurring in giant exoplanets

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will target five T dwarfs in four systems (SIMP J013656.5+093347.3, MASS J12373919+6526148, 2MASS J10190575+6529526 - T dwarf binary, BDR J1750+3809) with circularly polarized radio emission to understand upper atmosphere chemistry.

NIRSpec: G395H/F290LP grating/filter for all observations. S200A1 slit with three point dither except for 2MASS J10190575+6529526, which will have a subpixel dither in spatial direction due to it being a resolved binary. 2MASS J10190575+6529526 also requires a narrow range of V3PA from 205 to 215 so that the the binary is positioned along the length of the slit. Science integrations on each target range from 35 minutes for the brightest target (K~12.6) to 149 minutes for the dimmest target (K~19.2). For the longer integrations, we use NRSIRS2 readout instead of NRSIRS2RAPID to reduce data excess. Total science integration is 5.86 hours, which requires 11.25 hours with overheads.