---
id: 5816
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Coronagraphy  NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Gabriele Cugno  Co-PIs: Stefano Facchini"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "11.29/0.0"
program_title: "Lifting the Veil: A Direct Measure of Dust Properties and Extinction in a Planet Opened Gap"
type: "GO"
---
# 5816 - Lifting the Veil: A Direct Measure of Dust Properties and Extinction in a Planet Opened Gap
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5816
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label          | Observing Template                | Science Target      |
| :------------- | :-------------------------------- | :------------------ |
| Ref coro       | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging      | (4) HD-153135       |
| Roll 1 coro    | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging      | (5) EM-AS-209       |
| Roll 2 coro    | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging      | (5) EM-AS-209       |
| Roll 1 imaging | NIRCam Imaging                    | (5) EM-AS-209       |
| Roll 2 imaging | NIRCam Imaging                    | (5) EM-AS-209       |

---

## ABSTRACT

In the complex realm of protoplanetary disks, our understanding of dust properties and their evolution during planet formation stages remains highly uncertain, primarily due to the lack of empirical constraints. To enhance our ability to observe and characterize the dust properties in protoplanetary disks, we propose a pioneering study employing the cutting-edge capabilities of the JWST/NIRCam instrument. This program leverages the unique opportunity arisen from the serendipitous detection of a background star aligned with the outer gap of the AS209 disk traced by ALMA CO and IR scattered light observations, where at least one protoplanet is suspected to be forming. The proposed multi-band observations will provide the photometric SED of the extincted star over a wide wavelength range. This unique setting will enable us to accomplish two critical objectives. Firstly, we will empirically determine the properties of dust grains in a protoplanetary disk gap, shedding light on their characteristics and composition. These information will provide valuable constraints to understand dust evolution processes. Secondly, we aim to measure the extinction within the planet-forming gap for the first time, a crucial information to interpret direct imaging searches of embedded protoplanets.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This program aims at characterizing a background star shining through the CO and scattered light gap of the outer AS209 disk. The faint source is located 1.4 arcsec from the star. We will observe in coronagraphic mode with F182M, F210M, F300M and F335M. We will perform PFS subtraction using a combination of ADI and RDI. Hence, we will observe the target with two spacecraft roll angles and in addition we will observe a reference star.
In addition, we will obtain the photometry of the background star (or detection limits) in four more filters: F070W, F090W, F115W and F250M. Here to perform PSF subtraction we will only deploy ADI and thus for each filter we will observe with tow roll angles.
It is essential that all the photometries are obtained during the same visit, as delays cause the background object to shine through different regions of the disk gap. Hence, we set the entire visit (Obs3+Obs1+Obs2+Obs4+Obs5) to non-interruptible.
We have optimized the sequence in order to reduce slewing times: we plan to first observe the coronagraphic reference (2 couples of filters, 2 rolls), and then move to AS209 in coronagraphic mode (2 couples of filters, 2 rolls) and finally stay on AS209 and perform the non-coronagraphic observations (3 couples of filters, 2 rolls).