---
id: 5842
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Yinuo Han"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "3.6/0.0"
program_title: "What lies beyond the inner spiral of Apep?"
type: "GO"
---
# 5842 - What lies beyond the inner spiral of Apep?
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5842
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :---- | :----------------- | :------------- |
| Apep  | MIRI Imaging       | (1) AX-J1600.9-5142 |

---

## ABSTRACT

Wolf-Rayet binaries have been found to drive spiral dust shell that encode and amplify the internal workings of these evolved stellar systems. While ground based imaging has so far been unable to detect their higher order outer dust shells, JWST has demonstrated in recent ERS observations that ~20 concentric dust shells could be detected in WR140. We propose to leverage this unique capability to study the analogous system, Apep, which has presented the field with enduring and fundamental questions since its discovery. Apep's spectroscopically determined wind speed of 3500 km/s appeared to be four times faster than the expansion speed of its inner dust plume resolved with ground-based imaging, which is striking given the overwhelming momentum embodied by the WR wind. It has been suggested that the central WR binary is capable of launching spatially anisotropic wind speeds caused by rapid rotation of the stars, a scenario which would make Apep the best candidate for a long-duration gamma ray burst progenitor in the Galaxy if this theory is confirmed. However, alternative explanations for the wind and dust speed discrepancy are possible, and each of which predicts a different geometry for the outer spiral plumes of Apep which the central star launched further back in time. This proposal aims to resolve the outer dust shells of Apep to discern between potential scenarios explaining this wind speed puzzle. The possible scenarios of Apep have far-reaching implications for stellar-wind physics and the role played by massive stars in the enrichment of the ISM and dust budgets, and for settling Apep's standing as a local candidate long-duration gamma ray burst progenitor.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The observations aim to resolve the outer dust shells of Apep (AX-J1600.9-5142) with MIRI imaging. We will observe Apep with the F770W, 1500W and F2550W filters for 0.26h, 0.68 h and 0.45 h respectively and utilise the FULL detector subarray. We used the ETC to estimate the number of groups and integrations that will allow for sufficient S/N to detect the edge locations of the fifth dust shell from the centre while achieving a high dynamic range given the brighter lower order shells. The observations will be dithered with 3 sets of 4-point sets optimised for extended sources. No PSF calibrator observations are required in the sequence given that the structures are expected to be extended and the large-scale location of dust features well-resolved.