---
id: 5844
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/LRS  NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Michael Radica"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "16.4/0.0"
program_title: "Starspots, Hazes, and Disequilibrium Chemistry: A Deep Dive into the Atmosphere of HAT-P-18b"
type: "GO"
---
# 5844 - Starspots, Hazes, and Disequilibrium Chemistry: A Deep Dive into the Atmosphere of HAT-P-18b
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5844
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :---------------- | :---------------------------------- | :------------- |
| Transit 1 | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) HAT-P-18 |
| Transit 2 | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) HAT-P-18 |

---

## ABSTRACT

The atmospheres of warm Jupiters are hotbeds for disequilibrium processes. Chemical quenching from 3D mixing is predicted to significantly alter the atmosphere composition away from equilibrium expectations. In tandem, photochemistry can alter the landscape of the upper atmosphere; opening chemical pathways for the production of new molecules and even hazes. HAT-P-18b, an inflated warm-Jupiter orbits an active K-type star. Multiple analyses of the JWST NIRISS transit observations of this target have differed on the extent to which the host star's inhomogeneous photosphere affects the slope in the transmission spectrum, resulting in inferences of the planet's atmosphere composition which differ by orders of magnitude. We propose to observe two transits of HAT-P-18b, one each with NIRSpec/G395M and MIRI/LRS, in order to construct a complete 0.6-12µm transmission spectrum of this intriguing target. By leveraging the full capabilities of JWST, we will robustly differentiate between atmospheres sculpted by hazes vs. by stellar heterogeneities, via searching for the 5.8µm C-O haze scattering feature; a detection of which would be a first in an exoplanet atmosphere. This measurement will have wide-reaching implications for the interpretation of transmission spectra of other planets from which the presence of scattering hazes have been inferred on the basis of detecting a blue-wavelength slope. We will moreover, complete the chemical inventory of HAT-P-18b's atmosphere and probe the partitioning of Carbon and Sulfur; thereby gaining a deeper understanding of its formation history as well as the disequilibrium processes governing its evolution.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will observe two transits of HAT-P-18b, one with NIRSpec/G395M in BOTS mode and one with MIRI/LRS to complement the existing NIRISS/SOSS transit observations of this planet. These will allow us to robustly distinguish between haze scattering and the transit light source effect as the cause of the blue wavelength slope in the SOSS transmission spectrum, and probe the interplay between multiple disequilibrium chemistry processes in the atmosphere of this warm Jupiter. Our program will leverage the full capabilities of JWST to construct a complete 0.6 - 12µm transmission spectrum of HAT-P-18b, enabling one of the most comprehensive analyses of an exoplanet atmosphere attempted to date, and provide a dataset with high legacy value for the community.

For the NIRSpec/G395M observation, target selection is performed on the target itself with WATA and the F110W filter. One single pixel at the center of the TA aperture is saturated, however this should not be an issue for the target selection as has been demonstrated by numerous programs (e.g., DDT #1366). The science exposure is not saturated anywhere on the detector. We opt for G395M over G395H in order to have the potential to detect signatures of H2S, which would otherwise fall in the G395H detector gap. Retrieval analyses on simulated data show that the resolution of G395M will, in any case, be sufficient to accomplish our stated science goals. Furthermore, changing to G395H vs G395M results in only a marginal increase in the duty cycle (~98% vs. 96%). We include a 1:1 in-transit:baseline ratio, which is standard in the field, and will be sufficient for these observations.

For MIRI/LRS, target selection is once again performed on the target itself using the F1000W filter, with no saturation. We do not include the verification image as there is sufficient space on the MIRI detector to perform an accurate background calibration. The science exposures themselves are not saturated anywhere. We include 203 groups per integration, which pushes the detector to just shy of the saturation limit at the blue end, but also significantly improves the S/N at the red end (improvement of ~350 at 12µm). With the large number of groups we are confident that, if the onset of saturation is earlier than predicted, we can trim the affected groups and still retain enough of a ramp to accurately extract the slope. Moreover, previous MIRI programs (e.g., GO #1353, GO #2667; priv. comm.) which have even pushed past the saturation limit did not notice any adverse non-linearity effects. We opt to include an additional 1.5 hours of baseline before the transit in order to correct for a problematic ramp that has been seen in previous MIRI/LRS time series observations (e.g., Bell et al. 2023). Although we will attempt to correct the ramp, in the event that the effected integrations must be cut entirely, including the extra 1.5 hours of padding will still leave a sufficient 1:1 baseline. HAT-P-18b resides in an incredibly sparse field, and thus no PA constraints are needed to avoid contamination of the MIRI detector.

The total time ask for transits with both instruments is ~16 hours, including all overheads.

Two APT warnings remain, which both concern a High Gain Antenna move during the time series (one warning for each instrument). This is expected and acceptable for exoplanet time series observations, and there is no evidence that HGA moves during exposures have negatively impacted data.