---
id: 5846
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Lidia Oskinova  Co-PIs: Peter Zeidler"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "19.92/0.0"
program_title: "The enigma of Ultra-Luminous X-ray sources and its Achilles Heel in the Foot Nebula"
type: "GO"
---
# 5846 - The enigma of Ultra-Luminous X-ray sources and its Achilles Heel in the Foot Nebula
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5846
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label             | Observing Template              | Science Target             |
| :---------------- | :------------------------------ | :------------------------- |
| MIRI MRS          | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) SST2011-J081929.00+704219.3 |
| NIRspec G395M     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy        | (1) SST2011-J081929.00+704219.3 |

## ABSTRACT

We request 15.2 hr science time for the NIRspec IFU and MIRI MRS observations of the template low-metallicity ultra-luminous X-ray source (ULX) Holmberg II X-1 and the high-excitation HeIII nebula it powers. Believed to be comprised of a black hole accreting matter from its massive-star donor, Holmebrg II X-1 is the closest and the best example of the enigmatic population of accreting black hole binaries in low-metallcity galaxies. It is hypothesised that strong hard ionizing radiation and energetic outflows of the accreting black holes is the key feedback agent regulating the state of the interstellar medium in low-metallicity galaxies but lack of conclusive observations precludes definite conclusions. The unique capabilities of JWST allow us to spectroscopically map the nebulae around ULXs. Using both, NIRspec and MIRI, we will chart the ionization fronts within the Holmberg II X-1 nebula, establish whether the dust is present, and finally settle the type of its donor star. Complemented by archival X-ray, UV and optical spectra, the new JWST data will be analyzed using photoionization and dust models to uncover the physical conditions within the nebula and shed much needed light on the nature of ULXs.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose IFU observations of the compact nebula (3 arcsec diameter) around a point source. For observations 1, we use all MIRI Channels. To optimally sample the MIRI PSF and mitigate any cosmic rays and detector impurities we apply a DITHER-1 strategy and 30 groups per integration using the SLOWR1 readout pattern for all Channels and wavelength ranges, needed to avoid onboard memory issues. The extended regions and a blind-pointing accuracy of 0.1" allows us to waive TA. Additionally we request to use the Imager in parallel which will optimize the astrometric accuracy needed to exact spatially dependent information form the extended source in the IFU. For the Imaging part we request the F560W filter using 30 groups an 1 integration which does not saturate most sources.

For Observation 2, we use NIRspec G395M/F290LP. To optimally sample the NIRSpec PSF and mitigate any cosmic rays and detector impurities we propose to apply a 4-POINT-DITHER strategy and 40 groups per integration using the NRSIRS2 readout pattern. The extended regions and a blind-pointing accuracy of 0.1 arcsec allows us to waive WATA.