---
id: 5857
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 6
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Pooneh Nazari"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "16.88/0.0"
program_title: "Constraining the volatile budget in the birthplace of TRAPPIST-1-like systems"
type: "GO"
---
# 5857 - Constraining the volatile budget in the birthplace of TRAPPIST-1-like systems
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5857
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                        | Observing Template            | Science Target          |
| :--------------------------- | :---------------------------- | :---------------------- |
| J15421455-3410256 NI RSpec | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (1) J15421455-3410256 |
| J153848.3-344038 NIRSpec     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (2) J153848.3-344038    |
| J16011549-4152351 NI RSpec | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (3) J16011549-4152351  |
| J11042275-7718080 NI RSpec | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (4) J11042275-7718080  |
| J11071622-7723068 NI RSpec | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (5) J11071622-7723068  |
| J125701.5-764834 NIRSpec    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (6) J125701.5-764834   |
| IRAM04191+1522 NIRSpec     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (7) IRAM04191+1522    |
| 1521F-IRS NIRSpec            | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (8) 1521F-IRS           |
| J041412.3+280837 NIRSpec   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (9) J041412.3+280837   |

## ABSTRACT

JWST observations demonstrate that rocky planets around M dwarfs, such as those of TRAPPIST-1 system, have little or no atmosphere. The reason for this could be that they either have experienced significant atmospheric loss or that their initial volatile inventory was smaller. We propose to break this degeneracy by studying the volatile budget in the birthplaces of TRAPPIST-1-like systems. While many GO and GTO programs target the ice budget of solar-type protostars, the inventories of icy volatiles around very low luminosity protostellar systems, potential TRAPPIST-1 precursors, are vastly unexplored. Through the study of ices in 9 very low-luminosity protostellar systems across different star forming regions, we will examine whether there are any systematic differences in the initial volatile inventory between the very low luminosity systems and their higher luminosity counterparts.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to target 9 very low-luminosity protostellar systems to assess whether there is any difference between their volatile budget compared with their higher-luminosity counterparts. Our observations include G395M/F290LP and G235M/F170LP filter combination to include the entire 1.6 to 5 microns range which includes all the main oxygen and carbon carriers in ices.
For almost all sources we use the readout pattern NRSIRS2RAPID for optimisation of S/N. For one source we use NRSRAPID to avoid saturation while including more groups for better efficiency. Integration times are designed to include a minimum of S/N~50 on the continuum which results in detection of the water ice band at a S/N >3.