---
id: 5863
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRISS/SOSS  NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Catriona Murray"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "24.04/0.0"
program_title: "Shining a Spot-light on the Atmosphere of a Giant Planet around a Cool Star"
type: "GO"
---
# 5863 - Shining a Spot-light on the Atmosphere of a Giant Planet around a Cool Star
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5863
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                  | Observing Template                                   | Science Target |
| :--------------------- | :--------------------------------------------------- | :------------- |
| NIRISS TOI-3884b       | NIRISS Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy           | (1) TOI-3884b  |
| NIRSpec TOI-3884b      | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series                    | (1) TOI-3884b  |
| NIRISS TOI-3884b       | NIRISS Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy           | (1) TOI-3884b  |
| NIRSpec TOI-3884b      | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series                    | (1) TOI-3884b  |

## ABSTRACT

We propose to observe two transits each with NIRSpec/G395M and NIRISS/SOSS of TOI 3884 b with two aims. (1) To characterize the atmosphere of the only known super-Neptune planet around a fully convective M dwarf. These transmission spectra will offer glimpses in the atmospheric metallicity and C/O ratio of M-dwarf giant planets to better understand their unlikely formation, and into the potential clouds and hazes that form on planets around a young, active star. This wide 0.6—5.1µm spectral range will be highly sensitive (>6σ) to the large predicted absorption features from CH4 and H2O, and to species indicative of disequilibrium chemistry or photochemical processes: CO2, NH3, HCN, or SO2. (2) For the first time, take multiple precise measurements of the spectra of starspots on a cool M dwarf. Stellar inhomogeneities are a ubiquitous problem for planets around low-mass stars, and severely limit our inferences from high precision transmission spectra. TOI 3884 b eclipses a persistent complex of polar spots every transit. Therefore, we will tightly constrain the temperature, coverage, and spectral impact of occulted and unocculted star spots on a cool dwarf, directly comparing two gold-standard methods of constraining spot properties. We will observe TOI 3884's stellar contamination at work, empirically deriving the spectra of TOI 3884 and its spots, making this proposal directly synergistic to all M-dwarf planet observations made by JWST.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to observe four transits of TOI-3884b, two each with NIRISS/SOSS and two with NIRSpec/G395M. The science observations for each transit visit will include 4.2 hours of continuous spectra. This time includes 1 hour to absorb the time-constrained overhead charge and allow the detector to settle (which for this instruments has been shown to often require only 20-30 minutes), and 3.2 hours representing two complete transit durations, to provide equal in-transit and out-of-transit time baselines. For all transits, a "Phase" Special Requirement is included to make sure observations are centered on predicted times of transit.

For NIRISS/SOSS, target acquisition will be done using the target, with the SOSSFAINT setting and 19 groups/integration (reaching expected S/N of 237 and about 20% of saturation). We will also include the "Short First Exposure" to stabilize the pupil and filter wheel, and three integrations with the F277W to help disentangle the NIRISS orders in our analysis. For science exposures, we will use 10 groups/integration to achieve an integration time of about 1 minute and avoid saturating the detector. We used the Montreal NIRISS/SOSS contamination planning tool to assess the optimal Aperture Position Angles (APA) for the observation; it showed that TOI-3884 is observable in an APA range of [274.8, 300.1] with no contamination, so we implement this as a "PA Range" Special Requirement.

For NIRSpec/G395M, target acquisition might be done usng WATA with an offset, because the target itself is too bright. We select a nearby Gaia EDR3 star that is about G=17.2 magnitudes, and use the CLEAR filter to observe it for acquisition, reaching an expected S/N of about 30 on the acquisition star. We would like to discuss with an Instrument Specialist whether this offset pointing actually surpasses what we would expect with using NONE as the acquisition option, but we budget for the offset acquisition just in case.

We will double and triple check all these settings if this program is awarded.