---
id: 5866
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRISS/SOSS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Ryan MacDonald"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "15.69/0.0"
program_title: "Oceans of Uncertainty: A Veritable Waterworld or a Desolate Wasteland?"
type: "GO"
---
# 5866 - Oceans of Uncertainty: A Veritable Waterworld or a Desolate Wasteland?
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5866
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template                     | Science Target |
| :---- | :------------------------------------- | :------------- |
| 1     | NIRISS Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy | (1) WOLF-437   |
| 2     | NIRISS Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy | (1) WOLF-437   |
| 3     | NIRISS Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy | (1) WOLF-437   |

---

## ABSTRACT

Recent JWST transmission spectra observations of the M-dwarf rocky planet GJ 486b have detected a spectral signature attributed to water vapor at 3-sigma confidence. However, given the available wavelength coverage (NIRSpec G395H: 3-5 microns), the water signal could either originate from the planet's atmosphere or unocculted starspots. If an atmosphere is confirmed, this would be the first definitive detection of a secondary atmosphere from a rocky exoplanet and have major implications for JWST's search for atmospheres on potentially habitable planets. If the 700K super-Earth GJ 486b is proven to have a water-rich atmosphere, it would suggest that cooler, habitable-zone planets can also retain or replenish their water reservoirs in the face of significant stellar activity. Water is a crucial ingredient for life to have evolved on Earth and is expected to play a similar role for life on other worlds.

We request three transit observations of GJ 486b using the NIRISS/SOSS instrument mode to definitively resolve the atmosphere-starspot degeneracy for GJ 486b. With only 15.7 hours of charged time, these data could yield the first definitive detection of a water-rich secondary atmosphere. If, however, starspots turn out to be the preferred explanation, we will obtain unprecedented constraints on stellar inhomogeneities for an M-dwarf star. This alternate science outcome would represent a major advance in our knowledge of the physics of M-dwarfs and their surface features. The requested observations would therefore prove transformative for planetary science and/or stellar astrophysics.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will observe WOLF 437b (GJ 486b) in transit with NIRISS SOSS SUBSTRIP96 for a total of 3 visits covering 0.8 to 2.8 microns. Our observing strategy uses 3 groups per integration based on PandExo simulations. We also use the NIRISS contamination tool to check for nearby sources and select a position angle requirement such that there are no bright stars that could meaningfully degrade our observation.

Target acquisition was simulated with the JWST ETC. We will use the SOSSBRIGHT mode with 5 groups/integration, obtaining an SNR of approximately 130 to ensure the successful acquisition of the host star.

Each visit will be 5.2 hours, covering the transit and sufficient baseline to model the transit following observations as well as accounting for observing overhead. For each visit, we will have 3 groups per integration for 1431 integrations. We will also include a F277W exposure of 3 groups per integration for 10 integrations to identify zeroth order contaminants. Overall, the observations will require a total charged time of 15.7 hours.