---
id: 5890
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Cassandra Withers  Co-PIs: Adam Muzzin"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "42.27/29.79"
program_title: "JUMPS: The JWST Ultimate Medium-band Photometric Survey"
type: "GO"
---
# 5890 - JUMPS: The JWST Ultimate Medium-band Photometric Survey
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5890
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label      | Observing Template | Science Target      |
| :--------- | :----------------- | :------------------ |
| Abell370   | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) Abell370        |
| MACS0416   | NIRCam Imaging     | (2) MACSJ0416.1-2403 |
| MACS1149   | NIRCam Imaging     | (3) MACSJ1149+2223  |

---

## ABSTRACT

The characterization of high redshift galaxies and the sources responsible for reionization are major science goals of JWST. One of JWST's key science results is showing that ultra-low mass, ultra-faint galaxies are likely the primary driver of Hydrogen reionization. However, an in-depth accounting of these objects is challenging, which has prevented a full understanding of the drivers of reionization. One way to select ultra-faint galaxies in the epoch of reionization is by using medium-band imaging which selects galaxies on line flux instead of continuum emission. To this end, we propose the JWST Ultimate Medium-band Photometric Survey (JUMPS), which will observe three massive galaxy clusters (Abell 370, MACS0416, and MACS1149) using four LW medium bands (F360M, F430M, F460M, and F480M) with one SW broad band (F150W). In combination with existing F410M observations, JUMPS will select ultra-faint galaxies over 5.2 <z< 9.4 by searching for “JUMPS” in medium band colors driven by powerful emission lines. This technique is distinct from the more commonly used selections since it does not require galaxies to have strong continuum emission and can select “emission line only” sources which have little to no continuum emission. Samples selected in this way will provide a more complete picutre of galaxies at 5.2 < z < 9.4, and can be used to put robust constraints on the ultra-faint end of the UV luminosity function. Additionally, JUMPS will incorporate deep F150W imaging, which will allow us to put constraints on the UV properties of medium-band selected galaxies as well as allow us to select z = 13 – 16 Lyman break galaxies.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose a NIRCam prime observations of three clusters (Abell 370, MACS0416, and MACS1149) in four LW medium bands (F360M, F430M, F460M, and F480M) with one SW broad band (F150W). These observations will reach depths of ~27.5, ~27.5, ~27.8, ~28.5 and ~29.2 mag in F360M, F430M, F460M, F480M, and F150W, respectively. To utilize existing NIRCam imaging of all three clusters, we match the PA of JUMPS to that of CANUCS (Canadian NIRISS Unbiased Cluster Survey) NIRCam observations of those fields. This allows us to attach a NIRISS imaging parallel which has existing NIRISS grism observations from CANUCS. This parallel will provide NIRISS imaging in F090W, F277W, F356W, and F444W to provide supporting data to existing observations.