---
id: 5894
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Michelle Kunimoto"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "24.62/0.0"
program_title: "Comparative Atmospheric Planetology With the Three Large, Close-in Planets of TOI-4010"
type: "GO"
---
# 5894 - Comparative Atmospheric Planetology With the Three Large, Close-in Planets of TOI-4010
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5894
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label     | Observing Template             | Science Target |
| :-------- | :----------------------------- | :------------- |
| TOI-4010b | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) TOI-4010   |
| TOI-4010c | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) TOI-4010   |
| TOI-4010d | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) TOI-4010   |

## ABSTRACT

Comparing the atmospheres of multiple planets within a single system offers unique insights into their formation and evolution. As one of the only systems for which we can characterize the atmospheres of three planets, TOI-4010 offers an incredible opportunity for comparative planetology. We propose to use JWST/NIRSpec-Prism to observe single transits of TOI-4010 b, c, and d. By measuring planetary C/O ratios we will test predictions from multiple planet formation models, and by measuring atmospheric metallicity we will test predictions from photoevaporation theory. Atmospheric characterization of TOI-4010 with JWST will help answer where and how a rare hot Neptune desert-dweller and multiple close-in large planets could have formed around the same star, for the first time.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose a small program of 24.62 hours to obtain single transits of TOI-4010 b, c, and d with NIRSpec in Bright Object Time Series (BOTS) mode. This requires the S1600A1 aperture with a fixed 1.6"x1.6" field of view. Because TOI-4010 is relatively faint (J = 10.649 mag), we are able to use the Prism/CLEAR disperser-filter combination with the SUB512 subarray. This provides broad wavelength coverage over 0.6 - 5.3 microns at a resolving power of R ~ 100.

To obtain the total dwell time needed for each planet, we start with a base requirement of 1.8 times the transit duration and add a 1 hour window for flexible scheduling. This additional hour also increases the observing baselines to 2.4, 2.2, and 2.1 times the transit durations of TOI-4010 b, c, and d, respectively, providing sufficient out-of-transit baseline to correct for systematics and measure transit depths. We also add 0.25 hours of padding at the beginning of each observation to account for the thermal settling time of the detectors. Respectively, TOI-4010 b, c, and d have transit durations of 1.768, 2.769, and 3.604 hours, resulting in total dwell times of 4.432, 6.235, and 7.737 hours. Using 5 groups per integration and the NRSRAPID readout pattern, our dwell times correspond to 11583, 16295, and 20220 integrations per exposure. Based on PandExo simulations of NIRSpec-Prism observations under this observing strategy, we will have transit depth precisions of 100ppm, 82ppm, and 73ppm at 2.95 microns when binned to R = 100 for TOI-4010 b, c, and d, respectively.

The spectra will fully or partially saturate over 0.8 - 2.1 microns. This is similar to what occurred for the NIRSpec-Prism Early Release Science (ERS) observations of the comparably-bright WASP-39 (J = 10.663 mag), for which data over the saturated region was still able to be recovered. We will follow the strategy taken for WASP-39 to recover the saturated region for TOI-4010. Our mock retrievals of PandExo-simulated observations show that we are able to measure atmospheric C/O and metallicity sufficiently for our science goals even without any data over fully saturated wavelengths.