---
id: 5917
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Eros Vanzella  Co-PIs: Angela Adamo and Larry Bradley"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "22.65/0.0"
program_title: "Mapping Star Cluster Feedback in a Galaxy 500 Myr after the Big Bang"
type: "GO"
---
# 5917 - Mapping Star Cluster Feedback in a Galaxy 500 Myr after the Big Bang
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5917
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                      | Observing Template              | Science Target                     |
| :------------------------- | :------------------------------ | :--------------------------------- |
| SPT0615-JD-NIRSpec         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy        | (1) SPT0615-JD-NIRSpec             |
| SPT0615-JD-MIRI-background | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) SPT0615-JD-MRS-background      |
| SPT0615-JD-MIRI            | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) SPT0615-JD-MRS                 |

---

## ABSTRACT

JWST has discovered many distant galaxies, yet most of them will remain unresolved, with their stellar populations only inferred and never observed directly. To understand early galaxies and their contribution to reionization, we must study the sources producing ionising radiation within. Highly lensed early galaxies are the only chance to directly study the engines that reionized the Universe.

We propose a detailed spectroscopic study of a galaxy at z ~ 10, observed just 500 Myr after the Big Bang, well before reionization was complete. SPT0615-JD is the brightest z ~ 10 galaxy known, magnified to AB mag 25 and stretched to an arc 5" long. Recent JWST NIRCam imaging has revealed gravitationally-bound star clusters as small as r ~ 1 pc, the first detection of such features at this epoch.

We propose NIRSpec IFU prism and MIRI MRS spectroscopy in spatially resolved segments along the arc. We will clearly detect the UV continuum of the star clusters, enabling us to map their stellar ages, masses, extinctions, and UV slopes independently and more accurately than SED photometric analyses. Additionally, the HeII 1640 line will be clearly detected (EW > 30 A) if these are low-metallicity or PopIII star clusters (Z = 2-5% Z_sun from NIRCam SED fits). In the MIRI MRS observations, we will detect H-alpha emission, providing spatially-resolved maps of the star formation rates and, when combined with the NIRSpec FUV spectroscopy, the ionizing photon production efficiency. The latter is a key parameter typically used to evaluate the contribution of galaxies to cosmic reionization, but for the first time here, derived from star clusters in a young galaxy 500 Myr after the Big Bang.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose the following observations of the SPT0615-JD z~10 arc and the SPT0615-57 cluster field:

*   5.7 hours exposure time with NIRSpec IFU prism spectroscopy on SPT0615-JD
*   9.6 hours exposure time with MIRI MRS LONG (C) spectroscopy on SPT0615-JD, plus MIRI F560W and F770W imaging that overlaps the SPT0615-57 cluster field

Specific roll angles are required to maximize the coverage of the ~5-arcsec-long SPT0615-JD arc by placing it along the diagonals of the NIRSpec and MIRI IFUs. The position angles of the MIRI observations are additionally constrained to maximize the coverage of the MIRI imager on the SPT0615-57 cluster field.

For the MIRI MRS observations, we will obtain two dedicated sky frame observations with the same readout pattern and N_group as the science exposures. We set the sky position such that SPT0615-JD (and the cluster field) will be within the FOV of the MIRI imager, which will be operating in parallel during sky acquisition. A NON-INTERRUPTIBLE sequence requirement is added to ensure that the sky and science observations are obtained sequentially.

To maximize the SNR of the observations, we use the "background limited" requirement with the lowest backgrounds that can be scheduled (10% and 20% percentile settings for NIRSpec and MIRI, respectively).