---
id: 5924
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "NIRISS/SOSS  NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: David Sing"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "125.66/0.0"
program_title: "JWST's Exoplanet Grand Tour Spectroscopic Survey"
type: "GO, Treasury"
---
# 5924 - JWST's Exoplanet Grand Tour Spectroscopic Survey
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5924
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                               | Observing Template                          | Science Target |
| :---------------------------------- | :------------------------------------------ | :------------- |
| HAT-P-11_NIRISS_S OSS - Transit     | NIRISS Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy  | (1) HAT-P-11   |
| WASP-69_NIRISS_SO SS - Transit      | NIRISS Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy  | (2) WASP-69    |
| WASP-80_NIRISS_SO SS - Transit      | NIRISS Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy  | (3) WASP-80    |
| WASP-94Ab_NIRISS_ SOSS - Transit    | NIRISS Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy  | (4) WASP-94A   |
| NGTS-2_NIRISS_SOS S - Transit       | NIRISS Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy  | (5) NGTS-2     |
| HAT-P-30_NIRISS_S OSS - Transit     | NIRISS Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy  | (6) HAT-P-30   |
| KELT-7_NIRISS_SOS S - Transit       | NIRISS Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy  | (7) KELT-7     |
| HAT-P-1_NIRSpec_G3 95H - Transit    | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series         | (8) HAT-P-1    |
| WASP-63_NIRSpec_G3 95H - Transit    | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series         | (9) WASP-63    |
| HATS-72 NIRSPec_Pri sm - Transit    | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series         | (10) HATS-72   |
| WASP-6_NIRSpec_Pri sm - Transit     | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series         | (11) WASP-6    |
| WASP-6_NIRSpec_Pri sm - Transit     | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series         | (11) WASP-6    |
| WASP-19_NIRSpec_Pr ism - Transit    | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series         | (12) WASP-19   |
| WASP-12_NIRSpec_Pr ism - Transit    | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series         | (13) WASP-12   |
| WASP-76_NIRISS_SO SS - Transit      | NIRISS Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy  | (14) WASP-76   |
| WASP-76A & B NIRC am Imaging        | NIRCam Imaging                              | (14) WASP-76   |

---

## ABSTRACT

During their Grand Tour, the Voyager spacecraft revolutionized our view of the solar system, making more fundamental discoveries about different planetary environments than any mission before or since. Thousands of exoplanets are now known, and with the transformative capabilities of JWST, a Grand Tour of the exoplanets can now begin. How exoplanets form and their overall composition and chemical makeup remain major outstanding issues, and we seek to make progress on the underlying physical processes of these topics by unlocking the rich spectra of exoplanetary atmospheres, synergizing JWST's capabilities with HST. Here, we propose a first-generation JWST-HST exoplanet statistical survey covering giant planets from Neptune to Jupiter sizes. With a wide comprehensive survey across the major giant planet types and temperatures, our Grand Tour will establish a legacy dataset of high-quality exoplanet spectra early in JWST's lifetime. Without this frame of reference, the multitude of single-planet JWST studies will be hard to place in the context of the wider perspective, and rich areas of discovery can be easily overlooked. This program synthesizes the discordant Cycle 1 & 2 observations by carefully selecting 142 hours of complimentary key targets and wavelengths, leveraging the entire set into a 1st generation 350-hour Treasury-level 25 planet survey, a true exoplanet Grand Tour. A statistically significant number of planets will be available in JWST's first few cycles, enabling comparison studies which will provide immediate progress in answering several longstanding key questions relevant to all exoplanet types regarding their atmospheric chemistry and formation.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

For all targets, we calculated the optimal detector readout patters and groups per integration using STScI's ExoCTK (https://exoctk.stsci.edu) and the official JWST ETC (https://jwst.etc.stsci.edu/). The integrations per exposure required to cover each transit event and the and signal-to-noise ratios achieved on the exoplanet transmission spectra were calculated using PandEXO (https://exoctk.stsci.edu/pandexo/).

**NIRSpec G395H SNR:** For 4 targets, we will use the NIRSpec G395H/F290LP, using the 1.6”×1.6” fixed slit aperture with the Bright Object Time Series (BOTS) mode optimized for transit exoplanets enabling high photometric precision time-series spectroscopy. The SUB2048 subarray will be used to improve duty cycles and capture the full 2.8 to 5.1 µm range at a resolution of R~3000. All of our targets will used the NRSRAPID readout pattern, with the groups and integrations optimized using PandEXO. The groups/integration for the targets range from 7 to 67, with the number of integrations ranging from 311 for the faintest target to 3343 for the brightest. For our targets (J=7.2 to 11.2) we obtain per integration, per resolution element for our targets, signal-to-noise levels ranging from 80 to 200 over the G395H wavelength range.

**NIRSpec Prism SNR:** For 3 targets, we will use the NIRSpec prism, and the BOTS mode utilizing the 1.6”×1.6” fixed slit aperture to obtain precise spectrophotometry of the exoplanet transits. All of our targets will used the NRSRAPID readout pattern, with the groups and integrations optimized using PandEXO. The groups/integration for the targets range from 2 to 3, with the number of integrations ranging from 25,744 for the faintest target to 53,475 for the brightest. The SUB512 subarray will be used to improve duty cycles and capture the target spectra between 0.6 and 5.2 m. The brightest prism target WASP-12b requires the SUB512S subarray. We obtain per integration, per resolution element for our targets, signal-to-noise levels ranging from 20 to 175 over the 0.62 to 5.3 µm wavelength range.

**NIRISS SOSS SNR:** For 9 targets, we will use the NIRISS GR700XD with the SUBSTRIP256 subarray, which provides broad 0.6-2.8 µm coverage at a R~700. NISRAPID with 7 to 8 groups with 857 to 3099 integrations. For our targets (J=7.7 to 10.4) we get SNR levels per integration, per resolution element ranging from 126 to 728. The brightest targets (HAT-P-11, KELT-7, WASP-69, WASP-76) require the SUBSTRIP96 subarray with to avoid saturation. For KELT-7 & HAT-P-11, Group 3 will saturate in about 300 pixels of the extracted spectra and we will use the non-saturated group 2 during extraction for these pixels. As experience has shown 3 groups provides better data quality, we have elected to keep a minimum of 3 groups such that the non-saturated regions (0.8-1 & 1.4-1.8) get high quality data.

To avoid spectra contamination of nearby stars, we have added position angle constraints to the observations using the ExoCTK tool (https://exoctk.stsci.edu/contam_visibility), which indicates all of our targets will be observable largly free of contamination.

**HST UVIS:** Three targets do not have HST NUV coverage. We will follow the observing strategy of GO-17162 and GO-17183 for HST/UVIS. We will obtain two transit observations using the WFC3/G280 grism (0.2-1.0 m) for our targets NGTS-2b and HAT-P-30b and three transits of HATS-72b for a total of 24 orbits. For each transit, we will observe the pre-transit out-of-transit baseline, followed by observation of the transit event and ending with observation of the post-transit out-of-transit baseline. This requires 3 HST orbits per transit for both NGTS-2b and HAT-P-30b and four orbits for HATS-72b.