---
id: 5943
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 6
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Casey Papovich  Co-PIs: Weida Hu and Taylor Hutchison"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "61.83/0.0"
program_title: "What really are the Physical Properties of Galaxies in the Epoch of Reionization?"
type: "GO"
---
# 5943 - What really are the Physical Properties of Galaxies in the Epoch of Reionization?
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5943
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                         | Observing Template                | Science Target                  |
| :---------------------------- | :-------------------------------- | :------------------------------ |
| pointing2-pa268_new_c1_x5     | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy  | (35) pointing2_pa268_c1         |
| pointing1-pa271_new_c1_p24    | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy  | (31) pointing1_pa271_c1         |

---

## ABSTRACT

In its first year, JWST has identified and characterized galaxies into the epoch of reionization. These observations have shown that galaxies appear extreme, with high nebular ionization powered by young, metal-poor stellar populations and possibly accretion onto lower-mass supermassive black holes. These observations challenge our models because they push to the limits of our parameter-space. To make progress requires we detect weaker metal lines in the rest-UV and optical to understand the physical details of these galaxies. Here we propose deep, spectroscopic observations of galaxies at high redshift using two pointings of NIRSpec with 9.1 hrs in G395M and 11.5 hrs in G140M. We target 11 galaxies at 6.9 < z < 8.9 with known spectroscopic redshifts, combined with 48 candidate galaxies at 5.8 < z < 9 and 7 more at z > 9 with photometric redshifts. We will use these observations to measure accurate fluxes, equivalent widths, and flux ratios of weaker lines: OIII] 1661,1666 and [CIII] 1907 + CIII] 1909 lines in the rest-UV (G140M) and probe for other high-ionization lines such as He II 1640; the [OIII] 4363 auroral line, [OII] 3726, 3729 and other lines in G395M. We will then use these lines, combined with strong nebular emission lines to measure the galaxies’(i) ionization states, (2) gas temperatures and 12 + log O/H abundances, (3) ages and SFRs, (4) C/O abundances, (5) gas densities, (6) dust attenuation and the dust law, and (7) search for indications of AGN. This will be a major legacy dataset for JWST, providing data to understand the detailed physical conditions in the earliest galaxies.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We observe with NIRSpec in two pointings. Each pointing is split into four observations. We have designed the MSA configurations using MPT. We opt for 3-slit dithers to mitigate against stuck shutters and to allow more targets to receive observations. We also will manually open additional slits for objects where that is possible. Each observation has a different MSA configuration: the primary and secondary targets are the same in each configuration but the tertiary and filler targets change in each observation.

For each NIRSpec pointing we will observe with G140M and F290LP/G395M. For each pointing, we have split our observations into four observations. Each observation block contains 4 observations of G140M and 4 observations of G395M. Each observation of G140M includes one exposure with 18 groups/int and 3 int(egration)s, and each of these receives three dithered observations. Each observation of G395M includes one exposure with 21 groups/int and 2 int again with three dithers. We use the NRSIRS2 readout mode as this produces observations with up to 20% less readout-noise and it greatly reduces the 1/f noise, which is very important for measuring the sky background (see proposal for references for this). The total exposure times are therefore: 11948.3 s x 4 observations = 47.8 ks for G140M; 9278.5 s x 4 observations =37.1 ks for G395M.