---
id: 5952
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging  NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Julia Roman-Duval"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "25.67/0.0"
program_title: "Zooming-in on the sub-grid physics of PAHs at 20% solar metallicity"
type: "GO"
---
# 5952 - Zooming-in on the sub-grid physics of PAHs at 20% solar metallicity
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5952
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label   | Observing Template | Science Target      |
| :------ | :----------------- | :------------------ |
| MIRI    | MIRI Imaging       | (2) SMC-SW-Bar-3    |
| NIRCAM  | NIRCam Imaging     | (2) SMC-SW-Bar-3    |

---

## ABSTRACT

The MIR SED of high metallicity galaxies is dominated by spectral features resulting from the fluorescence of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon (PAH) molecules illuminated by FUV photons. In low metallicity systems (<20% solar), Spitzer observations have revealed a deficit in PAH emission, which so far have been explained by either the insufficient carbon content of the ISM of low metallicity galaxies to form PAHs; or by the destruction of PAHs by the hard radiation field percolating through the poorly shielded ISM of these systems. We suggest a third scenario: that the filling factor of PAH clumps decreases at low metallicity owing to the pervasive ionizing radiation field, resulting in diluted, faint emission even at the 2" resolution of Spitzer/IRAC. We propose to test this hypothesis by obtaining NIRCam and MIRI imaging of the 3.3, 7.7, 11.3, and 12.7 micron PAH features in the SMC SW Bar 3 region at the highest spatial resolution achievable in the nearby low metallicity universe (0.03 pc). We will determine the typical length-scales of PAH clumps in a quiescent star-forming environment. By comparing the observations to similar JWST images of the NGC 346 young massive star cluster (also in the SMC), we will investigate the influence of the radiation field on the spatial distribution of PAHs and their properties (size, ionization), traced by the relative strengths of the different features. The results of this investigation will inform the mechanisms responsible for the formation and destruction of PAHs. Since PAHs dominate the heating of gas in galaxies, this program will provide some important clues at a fundamental driver of galaxy evolution.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to obtain NIRCam and MIRI imaging of the SW Bar 3 quiescent star-forming region in the SMC, which is located at a distance of 62 koc and has a metallicity of 20% solar. We selected filters (F115W, F150W, F212W, F300M, F335M, F360M, F560W, F770W, F1000W, F1130W, F1280W, F1500W, F2100W) to sample the 3.3, 7.7, 11.3, and 12.7 micron PAH features, as well as the stellar and hot dust continua between and around the features. This will allow us to estimate and subtract those continua such that the strengths of the PAH features can be measured.

For NIRCam, we will obtain a single field centered on the peak of the 8 micron PAH emission previously detected with Spitzer/IRAC4. We will use the INTRAMODULEX pattern with 4 dithers to maximize coverage and efficiency.

For MIRI, a small (1x2) mosaic is required to cover the region. We will use a 4-point-sets dither optimized for extended sources, with starting-set=5 and number of sets = 1 (in the default positive direction) so that the pattern starts in the center of the array, which is in turned centered on the peak of the emission.

Exposure times were computed to reach a S/N > 30 on the features. The S/N is driven by the necessity to differentiate between PAH models with different sizes and ionization levels using band ratios (e.g., F770W/F1130W).

For the MIRI observations, we computed the maximum number of groups for which the background does not saturate, and estimated the corresponding number of integrations to reach the exposure time in 4 dithers. For NIRCam, we will use 8 groups/integration and 2 integrations to reach the exposure time in 4 dithers.

There are no timing constraints or other special requirements.