---
id: 5959
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "NIRISS/SOSS  NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Adina Feinstein  Co-PIs: Luis Welbanks"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "129.96/0.0"
program_title: "KRONOS: Keys to Revealing the Origin and Nature Of sub-neptune Systems"
type: "GO"
---
# 5959 - KRONOS: Keys to Revealing the Origin and Nature Of sub-neptune Systems
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5959
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                         | Observing Template                          | Science Target         |
| :---------------------------- | :------------------------------------------ | :--------------------- |
| V1298 Tau c                   | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series           | (1) V-V1298-Tau        |
| V1298 Tau c                   | NIRISS Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy  | (1) V-V1298-Tau        |
| V1298 Tau d                   | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series           | (1) V-V1298-Tau        |
| V1298 Tau d                   | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series           | (1) V-V1298-Tau        |
| V1298 Tau d                   | NIRISS Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy  | (1) V-V1298-Tau        |
| V1298 Tau d                   | NIRISS Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy  | (1) V-V1298-Tau        |
| TOI 451 c                     | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series           | (2) CD-38-1467         |
| TOI 451 c                     | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series           | (7) CD-38-1467-copy    |
| TOI 451 c                     | NIRISS Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy  | (7) CD-38-1467-copy    |
| TOI 451 d                     | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series           | (7) CD-38-1467-copy    |
| TOI 451 d                     | NIRISS Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy  | (7) CD-38-1467-copy    |
| TOI 2076 b                    | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series           | (3) BD+40-2790         |
| TOI 2076 b                    | NIRISS Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy  | (3) BD+40-2790         |
| TOI 2076 c                    | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series           | (3) BD+40-2790         |
| TOI 2076 c                    | NIRISS Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy  | (3) BD+40-2790         |
| TOI 2076 d                    | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series           | (3) BD+40-2790         |
| TOI 2076 d                    | NIRISS Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy  | (3) BD+40-2790         |

---

## ABSTRACT

Mature sub-Neptune-sized exoplanets with H/He atmospheres (from 2.5-4 REarth) are common but remain enigmatic due to predominantly cloudy, featureless NIR spectra. We propose to investigate young sub-Neptunes (< 200 Myr), which so far have shown preferentially clear atmospheres favorable for transmission spectroscopy. Within this large program we will (1) Determine if sub-Neptune atmospheric metallicity is primordial. Sub-Neptunes could form with high atmospheric metallicities or they may evolve to be metal-rich through photoevaporation, photochemistry, and planetary bombardment. (2) Determine whether sub-Neptunes are water enriched or depleted. Depending on their formation location, they could either be "gas dwarfs" with water-depleted atmospheres and rocky cores or "water worlds" with water-enriched atmospheres and ice/rock cores. (3) Analyze the homogeneity of multi-sub-Neptune systems. Depending on formation histories, planets in the same system may all be water worlds, gas dwarfs, or some combination of both.
To achieve our science goals, we will observe a sample of seven sub-Neptunes in three systems to fully characterize all known 3+ multi-sub-Neptune systems orbiting young young stars. Our sample will successfully answer questions about intra- and extra-system diversity, which has not been achieved in any other JWST program. We will observe all 7 planets with both NIRISS/SOSS and NIRSpec/G395H (1-5 micron) to obtain high signal-to-noise broad near-infrared spectra of our planets to measure abundances of C-, O-, S- and possibly N-bearing species. We request a total of 77.7 science hours (130 charged hours) to achieve our objectives.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Transit observations of seven young sub-Neptunes with NIRISS/SOSS and NIRSpec/G395H.

The transit duration for V1298 Tau c is 4.66 hours. We want an out-of-transit baseline of slightly less than or equivalent to the transit duration, with an additional minimum 0.5 hour burn-in time. Therefore, we request observations start 2.0 hours before the transit, go through the transit, and observe for an additional 1.0 hours post-transit. The total duration should be 7.6 hours = 28,800 seconds per transit.

The transit duration for V1298 Tau d is 5.59 hours. We want an out-of-transit baseline of slightly less than or equivalent to the transit duration, with an additional minimum 0.5 hour burn-in time. Therefore, we request observations start 2.0 hours before the transit, go through the transit, and observe for an additional 1.4 hours post-transit. The total duration should be 9.0 hours = 32,400 seconds per transit.

The transit duration for TOI-451 c is 3.06 hours. We want an out-of-transit baseline of slightly less than or equivalent to the transit duration, with an additional minimum 0.5 hour burn-in time. Therefore, we request observations start 2.0 hours before the transit, go through the transit, and observe for an additional 1.14 hours post-transit. The total duration should be 6.2 hours = 22,320 seconds per transit.

The transit duration for TOI-451d is 4.05 hours. We want an out-of-transit baseline of slightly less than or equivalent to the transit duration, with an additional minimum 0.5 hour burn-in time. Therefore, we request observations start 2.0 hours before the transit, go through the transit, and observe for an additional 1.0 hours post-transit. The total duration should be 7.0 hours = 25,200 seconds per transit.

The transit duration for TOI-2076 b is 3.33 hours. We want an out-of-transit baseline of slightly less than or equivalent to the transit duration, with an additional minimum 0.5 hour burn-in time. Therefore, we request observations start 1.6 hours before the transit, go through the transit, and observe for an additional 1.1 hours post-transit. The total duration should be 6.2 hours = 22,320 seconds per transit.

The transit duration for TOI-2076 c is 4.22 hours. We want an out-of-transit baseline of slightly less than or equivalent to the transit duration, with an additional minimum 0.5 hour burn-in time. Therefore, we request observations start 2 hours before the transit, go through the transit, and observe for an additional 1 hours post-transit. The total duration should be 7.2 hours = 25,920 seconds per transit.

The transit duration for TOI-2076 d is 3.20 hours. We want an out-of-transit baseline of slightly less than or equivalent to the transit duration, with an additional minimum 0.5 hour burn-in time. Therefore, we request observations start 2.0 hours before the transit, go through the transit, and observe for an additional 1.0 hours post-transit. The total duration should be 6.2 hours = 22,320 seconds per transit.

We request the same set-up for both the NIRISS/SOSS and NIRSpec/G395H observations of each target.