---
id: 5967
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Pierre-Alexis Roy  Co-PIs: Bjorn Benneke"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "21.36/0.0"
program_title: "Exploring the desert: Thermal characterization of an exposed planetary core"
type: "GO"
---
# 5967 - Exploring the desert: Thermal characterization of an exposed planetary core
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5967
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label      | Observing Template                  | Science Target |
| :--------- | :---------------------------------- | :------------- |
| Eclipse 1  | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series   | (1) TOI-849    |
| Eclipse 2  | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series   | (1) TOI-849    |
| Eclipse 3  | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series   | (1) TOI-849    |
| Eclipse 1  | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series   | (1) TOI-849    |

---

## ABSTRACT

The recent discovery of a handful of ultra-dense and hot sub-Neptunes, found right in the middle of the hot-Neptune desert, offer us the unprecedented opportunity to perform direct spectroscopic characterization of primordial planetary cores. Indeed, these sub-Neptunes with large masses and extreme bulk densities are thought to be remnant and exposed version of the cores found at the center of giant planets like Jupiter, but they have never been observed in spectroscopy. We propose to characterize the thermal structure and composition of the highest-ESM ultra-dense sub-Neptune for JWST: TOI-849b. We will observe three secondary eclipses of the exoplanet with NIRSpec/G395H, which will enable us to precisely measure the dayside temperature, and heat redistribution efficiency, as well as infer the metallicity, and the C/O of the planet's envelope. This will be achieved by obtaining an emission spectrum of the exoplanet, which will be precise enough to measure the water and carbon dioxyde contributions. Such measurements will allow us to spectroscopically confirm the metal-enriched, exposed core nature of the sub-Neptune, as well as to trace its formation history, as the C/O measured for this planet will directly be that of the exposed core, in contrast to standard C/O measurements which only access the upper layers of H-rich atmospheres. This program will thus represent a major step forward in the study of the diversity of sub-Neptunes, but also in the study of planet formation, as it will provide us with a direct view at a primordial planetary core.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will observe time-series spectroscopic observations of three eclipses of the ultra-dense sub-Neptune exoplanet TOI-849b. For all three visits, the observations will be performed with the NIRSpec instrument in BOTS mode using the G395H grism which will measure an emission spectrum of the planet in the near-infrared. The observations need to be continuous, and they are time critical, as they need to be obtained when the planet goes into secondary eclipse.

---