---
id: 5974
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Manuel Aravena  Co-PIs: Jorge Gonzalez Lopez"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "43.18/0.0"
program_title: "ORCHIDS: ORigin of the [C II] Halos In Distant Systems"
type: "GO"
---
# 5974 - ORCHIDS: ORigin of the [C II] Halos In Distant Systems
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5974
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label             | Observing Template     | Science Target  |
| :---------------- | :--------------------- | :-------------- |
| G935H Cristal-05  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) Cristal-05  |
| G935M Cristal-07c | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (2) Cristal-07c |
| G935H Cristal-09  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (3) Cristal-09  |
| G935H Cristal-10  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (4) Cristal-10  |
| G935M Cristal-21  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (5) Cristal-21  |

---

## ABSTRACT

One of the most interesting findings of recent [CII]158um galaxy surveys has been the clear presence of extended [CII] line emission among massive star-forming galaxies at z=4-6, beyond the rest-frame UV and dust continuum emission and extending out to ~10-kpc. Despite being key to understanding the interplay between star formation activity and feedback processes in the circumgalactic medium (CGM), the origin of such [CII] ``halos'' remains enigmatic.

In this proposal, we present a comprehensive program, titled “Origin of the [CII] Halos in Distant Systems” (ORCHIDS), aiming to unravel the nature of these extended [CII] features. Leveraging the capabilities of JWST/NIRSpec and Keck/KCRM IFU observations, we will scrutinize a carefully selected sample of eight massive star-forming galaxies at redshifts z~5-6. These targets have been recently confirmed to exhibit [CII] halos through high-resolution ALMA imaging.

Our observations are designed to rigorously test the most plausible scenarios predicting the nature of [CII] halos. These observations will yield a full characterization of the baryonic cycle in these systems, yielding a unique probe of (i) the kinematics and distribution of the star formation and ionized gas, enabling us to discern outflows, multiple component systems and extended dense atomic and ionized gas in the CGM as the origin for [CII] halos (JWST/NIRSpec + Keck/KCRM); (ii) test associations with Lyman-alpha halos/blobs; (iii) the galaxies' gas excitation and shocks (JWST/NIRSpec); and (iv) provide resolved measurements of various star-forming tracers.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This proposal will perform NIRSpec/IFU observations in five galaxies at redshifts between 5.1 and 5.7. We will use the combination of grating/filter G395H/F290LP for three of the targets and G395M/F290LP for the other two to detect Hbeta, [OIII], Halpha, and [NII]. We will integrate between 4.5 and 8.3 hours on source.

The JWST observations will be complemented with Keck+KCRM IFU observations to detect the Lyman-alpha emission in and around the galaxies.

In all cases, the goal is to detect the emission lines with high global signal-to-noise ratio in order to search for spatial and kinematical structures.