---
id: 5997
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Tobias Looser  Co-PIs: Francesco D'Eugenio"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "73.46/54.98"
program_title: "OASIS: Observing All phases of StochastIc Star formation - A census of galaxies at z = 5–8 over the entire SFR–M? plane"
type: "GO"
---
# 5997 - OASIS: Observing All phases of StochastIc Star formation - A census of galaxies at z = 5–8 over the entire SFR–M? plane
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=5997
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                       | Observing Template              | Science Target                      |
| :-------------------------- | :------------------------------ | :---------------------------------- |
| `ipa23, ipa31, ipa33`       | `NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy` | `(2)5997_obs1_trim_ref updated`     |
| `oasis south`               | `NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy` | `(1) bursty_prop`                   |
| `ipa2, ipa3, ipa4`          | `NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy` | `(3)5997_obs3_trim_ref updated`     |

---

## ABSTRACT

Within the first year of operation, JWST collected overwhelming evidence for stochastic ("bursty") star-formation histories (SFH) at early cosmic epochs (z > 5). However, understanding and quantifying the physical mechanisms responsible for this increased burstiness requires an unbiased view of galaxies throughout all phases of their SFHs, i.e., including during faint 'off-burst' phases found below the star-forming main sequence. This proposal advocates for the first unbiased investigation of stochastic SFHs at high redshift, using a mass- and SFR-limited sample reaching down to M = 10^8 M and SFR = 0.15 M yr^-1. We will use two 28-hour NIRSpec/MSA pointings with the prism to observe a representative sample of 223 galaxies at 5 < z < 8, including up to six quenched galaxies and twenty low-sSFR "lulling" galaxies. This sample will help us to answer these questions: I) what is the duty cycle of star formation? II) what is the fraction of (temporarily- or mini-)quenched galaxies? and III) how fast do galaxies quench? The proposed sample will provide the first statistical benchmark for testing the efficiency of feedback models in numerical simulations at 5 < z < 8. The impact of our findings will extend to the theory of star formation regulation, to our understanding of stellar and supernovae feedback, and of SMBH growth.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose ultra-deep NIRSpec prism spectroscopy of faint galaxies to establish a mass-complete sample at 5< z < 8. We aim to detect the continuum at approx 3 microns to constrain the UV slope, Balmer break and emission line EWs of the targets. We propose two pointings with NIRSpec/MSA PRISM/CLEAR, each with 28 h on source. Ultra-deep NIRCam imaging observations with complementary F430M, F460M and F480M filters will be carried out in parallel.