---
id: 6035
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Miranda Caputo"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "4.58/0.0"
program_title: "Hidden Clusters No More! Completing a Full Cluster Catalog from NUV to MIR in *The Extreme* Star-Forming and Dusty Galaxy NGC 1614"
type: "GO"
---
# 6035 - Hidden Clusters No More! Completing a Full Cluster Catalog from NUV to MIR in *The Extreme* Star-Forming and Dusty Galaxy NGC 1614
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6035
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :---- | :----------------- | :------------- |
|       | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) NGC1614    |

---

## ABSTRACT

NGC 1614 is a highly star-forming and luminous infrared galaxy with a range of environments from a dust-free UV-bright arm to a highly dust-enshrouded nuclear region that is home to a large number of optically-obscured clusters. The Hubble Space Telescope has been used extensively to find and determine the ages and masses of optically visible clusters. These HST data have been used to quantify the shape and normalization of the cluster mass function and the fraction of stars that form in clusters. These quantities are predicted to increase with increasing star formation rate density. However, these works are almost certainly missing many clusters that are younger than 10 Myr old due to the large amounts of dust, potentially leading to grave underestimates for both quantities. JWST will enable the detection, along with age and mass estimates of all the deeply embedded (Av = 15 or more), young (<10 Myr), and massive (>10,000 Msun) clusters in the extremely star forming and dusty central region of NGC 1614. This IR-based catalog, combined with the optical HST-based cluster catalog, will span from the NUV to MIR and reveal the the shape of the initial cluster mass function and the fraction of stars formed in clusters. The use of NIRCAM to observe hydrogen emission lines and broadband colors in NGC 1614 will enable the calculation of both the extinction and age of clusters with ages from 1Myr to 1Gyr, that are completely invisible to optical observations.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will use NIRCAM to detect and age-date the obscured cluster population in recent merger and luminous infrared galaxy NGC 1614. We propose to use single-module NIRCAM imaging in 6 filters: F182M and F410M to get two hydrogen recombination lines, Paschen alpha and Brackett alpha respectively, as well as F200W, F210M, F277W, and F480M to serve as continuum bands for the hydrogen lines and cover the full wavelength range available on NIRCAM.

The SHALLOW4 readout pattern with at least 5 groups per integration will be used. This will help with saturation effects - although we do not expect to saturate - and cosmic ray removal.