---
id: 6045
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/LRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Robin Baeyens"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "10.22/0.0"
program_title: "Detecting ongoing gas-to-solid nucleation on the ultra-hot planet WASP-76 b"
type: "GO"
---
# 6045 - Detecting ongoing gas-to-solid nucleation on the ultra-hot planet WASP-76 b
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6045
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label              | Observing Template            | Science Target       |
| :----------------- | :---------------------------- | :------------------- |
| WASP-76b           | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) BD+01-316        |
| Background exposure | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) Background       |

## ABSTRACT

Nucleation, the process of single molecules clustering together to form a macroscopic particle, is an ill-understood but crucial process to a range of astrophysical environments. Nucleation is a necessary condition for cloud formation in hot, fully gaseous media, such as exoplanet and brown dwarf atmospheres. Additionally, nucleation and subsequently circumstellar dust formation is the driving factor of stellar outflows.
We propose to measure the mid-infrared transmission spectrum of the ultra-hot gas giant WASP-76 b using MIRI/LRS, with the aim of observing ongoing nucleation for the first time on an exoplanet. We target the smallest and most refractory clusters (Al2O3)N and (TiO2)N, which represent the first steps in the high-temperature transition from gaseous to solid material. New quantum-chemistry studies demonstrate that these clusters have detectable spectroscopic features in the MIRI wavelength range, and observations of WASP-76 b have shown evidence for ongoing condensation. Confirming the presence of these species on WASP-76 b would provide an explanation for the anomalous titanium and aluminium depletions that have been inferred on this planet, and constraining their abundances will be crucial for our understanding of how astrophysical solids grow and evolve.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We request to observe a single transit of WASP-76 b with MIRI/LRS in slitless observing mode. The wavelength range is 5 to 14 micron. The transit duration of WASP-76 b is 3.694 hours and we require an out-of-transit baseline observation of equal duration, with 30 additional minutes of instrument settling time. This amounts to a total observation request (not including overheads) of 7.89 hours. The proposed observations will use the SLITLESSPRISM subarray and the FASTR1 readout pattern, using 25 groups per integration. For Target Acquisition, we will use WASP-76 itself with the F560W filter, 4 groups, and the FAST readout pattern. The requested observation would yield the first observation of WASP-76 b with any JWST instrument.