---
id: 6049
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Tamas Szalai  Co-PIs: Schuyler Van Dyk"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "11.09/0.0"
program_title: "Populating the Gap in Dust-Formation History of Type IIP Supernovae"
type: "GO"
---
# 6049 - Populating the Gap in Dust-Formation History of Type IIP Supernovae
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6049
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :---- | :----------------- | :------------- |
|       | MIRI Imaging       | (1) SN-2003GD  |
|       | MIRI Imaging       | (3) SN-2007IT  |
|       | MIRI Imaging       | (5) SN-2007OD  |
|       | MIRI Imaging       | (7) SN-2012AW  |

## ABSTRACT

Core-collapse supernovae, especially Type IIP SNe, have long been considered to significantly contribute to the cosmic dust budget. Models of expanding ejecta predict 0.1-1 solar masses of dust in SNe IIP. New dust cools quickly and is therefore detectable at longer (mid-IR) wavelengths. However, only a handful of nearby SNe IIP have shown direct observational evidence for dust condensation (based primarily on Spitzer data), and dust masses (generally limited to early epochs, and to >500 K temperatures) have been 2-3 orders of magnitude smaller than theoretical predictions. At the same time, more recent observations of Galactic SN remnants (SNRs) and the very nearby (~50 kpc) SN 1987A have revealed that massive cooler dust reservoirs may form over years or decades in SNe. However, no other SNe II(P) have significant amounts of newly-formed ejecta dust measured < ~5 yrs after explosion up till now.
As demonstrated by recent results on two nearby SNe IIP, JWST finally allows hidden cool (~100--200 K) dust reservoirs in a larger sample of extragalactic SNe to be revealed and to help fill the gap currently existing in the dust-formation history for SNe.
Here we propose 7-filter JWST MIRI Imaging of 4 of the most dusty, nearby SNe IIP that will be age > 5 yr by the time of expected Cycle 3 observations. Via modeling their expected mid-IR spectral energy distributions, we will estimate or place stringent constraints on the dust mass for each SN. The deeper understanding of dust mass evolution would also would reveal how dust opacity evolves with time and would provide a more appropriate characterization of the composition of dust grains.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This proposal will image 4 nearby SNe IIP with MIRI Imager. Each observation will consist of F1000W, F1130W, F1280W, F1500W, F1800W, and F2100W filters. We also request F560W imaging. Even though we don't expect to necessarily detect the SN at these wavelengths, we request the data for image and source alignment with archival Spitzer 4.5 micron and HST near-IR imaging of the SN when it was younger to ensure we are able to identify our source in the other filters. Note that SN 2003gd has been recently detected by JWST/NIRCam, while, on SN 2007it, there are obtained MIRI F2100W observations (thus, in the case of this one object, we do not include F2100W filter imaging in our program.)