---
id: 6053
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Isak Wold"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "19.71/0.0"
program_title: "UNCOVERing the Drivers of Reionization with JWST's F410M Medium Bandpass Filter; Rest-Frame Optical Spectroscopic Properties"
type: "GO"
---
# 6053 - UNCOVERing the Drivers of Reionization with JWST's F410M Medium Bandpass Filter; Rest-Frame Optical Spectroscopic Properties
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6053
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label              | Observing Template               | Science Target           |
| :----------------- | :------------------------------- | :----------------------- |
| Plan1a_fin         | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (9) msa_cat_v4           |
| Plan1b_vfin_talt   | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (10) msa_cat_plan1b_vfin |

---

## ABSTRACT

Low-mass, star-forming galaxies have emerged as one of the most likely drivers of reionization, and their identification and study is a main goal of JWST, but the current reionization epoch JWST spectroscopic campaigns primarily focus on broadband or slitless WFSS-selected sources. An exciting alternative is to investigate JWST F410M Medium bandpass excess objects, where extreme [OIII] emitters at z~7 significantly perturb the medium band relative to the encompassing F444W broadband filter. Strong emission from doubly ionized oxygen is a beacon for some of the most intensely star-forming galaxies and for some of the highest known LyC leakage. Furthermore, the F410M bandpass selects emitters at an important redshift range z=6.72-7.59 which is thought to be a transition regime where the intergalactic medium is substantially neutral, yet there are also significant islands of ionization. We use F410M-excess selection to identify high-EWs (>500A) OIII emitters at z~7 within the UNCOVER strong lensing field, giving amplification to study intrinsically fainter galaxies. We find that only 60% of our objects are detected in extremely deep (5sigma depth of ~30 AB) JWST broadband-selected survey. Additionally, our objects are an order of magnitude fainter than found in JWST slitless WFSS surveys, allowing us to isolate numerous – allowing for efficient MSA use low-mass galaxies postulated to contribute significantly to reionization. In this proposal, we aim to measure the ionized gas properties including metallicity, ionization production, and AGN contribution of these z~7 low-mass, extreme emission line galaxies with NIRSpec G395M/F290LP follow-up.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This MOS observing mode program uses NIRSpec's G395M/F290LP to obtain 2.87–5.10 um spectra of [OIII] emitters over a redshift of 6.72 to 7.59 with a resolving power of R=1000. We will observe rest-frame wavelengths from 3341 to 6600 A covering many lines including the [OII] doublet, [OIII]4363, HeII4686, [OI]6300, and the Balmer series out to Halpha for many targets. Our proposed program is an efficient study of strong emission sources at z~7 with a total charged time (including overheads) of 19.71 hours.

The full NIRSPEC detector is read out with NRSIRS2, as recommended for deep observations. We find through the ETC that 7 hours and 22 minutes of exposure time (using 20 groups, 6 integrations, and 3 exposures) is needed to observe [OIII]5008 at SNR>15, [OIII]4960 at SNR>5, and Hbeta at SNR>5 for our faintest source. This observational setup will give us a 3sigma detection of the Hgamma+[OIII]4363 complex for our faintest target and 5sigma detections for >2x10^-18 erg/s/cm^2 [OIII] targets, 50% of our sample.

The three exposures are used to nod, taking an exposure in each shutter of our three-shutter slitlet. We accept the trade-off of having a wavelength gap caused by the NIRSpec chip gap. We design our MSA configurations to mitigate primary emission line features falling within the gap. Adding a fixed dither to cover the chip gap would result in non-uniform SNR over the wavelength range and add multiplexing losses, due to the requirement that our sources be observable in two configurations, rather than one.

Extensive Pre-imaging with NIRCam already exists in this well-studied UNCOVER field, providing the required astrometric accuracy for target acquisition with the microshutter array. Within our APT, we demonstrate that two MSA configurations can target a total of N=23 [OIII] primary targets. A subset of four [OIII] emitters will be covered in both configurations giving us higher SNRs, and accurate relative calibration between pointings. We will use the remaining shutter space to follow up z~5 Halpha emitters, published high-z_photo UNCOVER continuum-selected sources (Weaver et al. 2023), and to form a master sky background.