---
id: 6064
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Ana Carolina de Souza Feliciano"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "24.77/0.0"
program_title: "Constraining the dynamical evolution of the outer solar system with trans-Neptunian binaries"
type: "GO"
---
# 6064 - Constraining the dynamical evolution of the outer solar system with trans-Neptunian binaries
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6064
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label          | Observing Template | Science Target     |
| :------------- | :----------------- | :----------------- |
| Quaoar         | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) Quaoar         |
| MANWE          | NIRCam Imaging     | (2) Manwe          |
| ORCUS          | NIRCam Imaging     | (3) Orcus          |
| 2006BR284      | NIRCam Imaging     | (4) 2006BR284      |
| LEMPO          | NIRCam Imaging     | (5) Lempo          |
| TEHARONHIAWAKO | NIRCam Imaging     | (6) Teharonhiawako |
| 2003QY90       | NIRCam Imaging     | (7) 2003QY90       |
| 2004PB108      | NIRCam Imaging     | (8) 2004PB108      |
| ERIS           | NIRCam Imaging     | (9) Eris           |
| ERIS           | NIRCam Imaging     | (9) Eris           |
| ALTJIRA        | NIRCam Imaging     | (10) ALTJIRA       |
| ALTJIRA-UPDT   | NIRCam Imaging     | (10) ALTJIRA       |

---

## ABSTRACT

Trans-Neptunian objects (TNOs) are icy remnants of the planetary formation that orbit the Sun in the region beyond Neptune. We propose to resolve a sample of 10 trans-Neptunian binaries (TNBs) of similar and different sizes with tight and wide separations using three sets of NIRCAM filters. The combination of the physical and the compositional properties of the binary systems in our sample could constrain the formation scenario cases due to impact, or streaming instabilit in the early trans-Neptunain region. One portion of our sample is not explained by the current binary formation models since they have similar size (that could be compatible with the streaming instability) but tight separation (as the satellites of the larger TNOs, that could have been formed by impacts). The characterization of the surface composition of both components is crucial to address that matter. Due to their spatial separation, NIRSpec is not suitable for this task. Through the combination of the short and long filters of NIRCAM with the compositional map of the trans-Neptunian region done in the first cycle of JWST, this proposal has potential to constrain proposed formation models and provide an initial input for the expansion of dynamic and evolution theories for some TNBs.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This is an imaging program using NIRCAM simultaneously in 3 pairs of filters: (1) F070W (short) & F250M (long), (2) F115W (short) & F360M (long), and (3) F210M (short) & F300W (long) to obtain colors and spectrophotometric measurements of X trans-Neptunian binaries aimed to add compositional constrains on the formation scenarios of trans-Neptunian binaries. Integrations are calculated such that S/N is 30 for each object in the long bandpass.