---
id: 6073
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/FS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Annalisa Citro"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "29.49/0.0"
program_title: "JWST as a time machine: weighting the carbon produced exclusively by massive stars"
type: "GO"
---
# 6073 - JWST as a time machine: weighting the carbon produced exclusively by massive stars
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6073
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label      | Observing Template           | Science Target      |
|------------|------------------------------|---------------------|
| OB1-JADES  | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (2) JADES 10058975 |
| OB2-RX     | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (3) RX 11027        |

---

## ABSTRACT

Carbon is one of the most abundant elements in the Universe and can be produced both by low/intermediate mass stars (1 < Msun < 8) and massive stars (>8 Msun). The relative contribution of the two channels, however, is still undefined. The interpretation of observations of individual stars and galaxies is complicated by the fact that it is impossible to separate the two contributors, as any stellar population older than 500 Myr can release carbon into the ISM through both channels. With JWST we now have the unprecedented opportunity to “travel back in time” and observe stellar populations in which only massive stars could have contributed to the release of carbon. This is because low/intermediate mass stars can significantly contribute to the C budget only at times older than ~ 500 Myrs. We propose to study the C/O abundance in four spectroscopically confirmed galaxies at 9.1 <z<9.5, when the Universe is only 500 Myr old, and only MS contribute to the release of C. We will obtain 28.3 hrs (including overheads) of NIRSpec+G235M spectroscopy on 2 targets, and use archival data for the remaining two. All galaxies have rest-frame optical emission lines, but lack the UV C III]1909 and O III]1666 lines required for measurement of C and O abundances. The proposed observations will constrain the carbon and oxygen yields at early times, shedding light on the nature of the first stars responsible for the pre-enrichment of the ISM.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

At 9.1 <z<9.5, the OIII]1666 doublet and CIII]1909 doublet are redshifted to 1.68-1.75 and 1.92-2 micrometer, respectively. Therefore, we will observe our targets using NIRSpec in fixed slit mode with the G235M/F170LP grating/filter combination. From existing NIRCam images, the sources' radius is smaller than 0.2", therefore we will observe them with the S200A1 slit. Using the JWST Exposure time calculator, we need 28.31 hours (including overheads) to reach the required S/N in the O III] line (S/N~6), which will correspond to a S/N on_CIII]/OIII] of ~ 5. In the calculations, we assumed medium background, and the observational strategy consists of : JADES 10058975: 230 groups*6 integration * 5 dithers. 46740 exposure time, 58513 sec charged. RX-ID11027: 200 groups * 6 integration * 5 dithers. 37395 sec exposure time, 47680 sec charged. 5 dithers are chosen to facilitate the background subtraction. To acquire the target on the slit we will use the Wide Aperture Target Acquisition (WATA) using clear filter and NRSRAPID readout. For both targets we will first acquire on the nearest star and then slew to our targets. We chose an M-type star at a distance from the target smaller than 55".