---
id: 6074
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Erini Lambrides"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "7.96/0.0"
program_title: "The First Measurement of AGN Feedback in Action in the First Billion Years"
type: "GO"
---
# 6074 - The First Measurement of AGN Feedback in Action in the First Billion Years
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6074
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :---- | :----------------- | :------------- |
| 1     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) COSMOSVLA-J100104.51+020203.6 |

---

## ABSTRACT

Early results from JWST have raised more questions than answers on the prevalence, growth, and impact of growing SMBHs (referred to as AGN) during Cosmic Dawn. With most JWST studies finding extreme over-abundances of AGN relative to predictions, the impact of these high-z powerfully accreting sources on the formation history of their nascent host-galaxies is unknown. We propose for NIRSpec IFU G395M/F290LP (Total Science Exposure Time ~6 hours) to observe the only known z> 7 heavily obscured radio-loud AGN candidate (COSW-106725, z~7.7). As highlighted in the proposal, heavily obscured RL AGN are the ideal candidates for efficiently testing AGN feedback paradigms during the Epoch of Reionization. These proposed observations will provide the first robust constraints on the effect of AGN activity on nascent early galaxy evolution without significant contamination from the central engine. We will constrain, for the first time, the level of ionized AGN contribution on the clumpy, dense, un-settled ISM of an early massive galaxy via [OIII], Hbeta, and optical continuum measurements on 500pc scales. From hunting for fast-moving outflowing ionized gas to mapping the different sources of ionization across the galaxy's extent, these measurements will allow for unprecedented constraints on the true extent of AGN impact on a young, massive galaxy. This proposal will pave the way forward for future observations of larger sample sizes, and will enable for the first time, greater understanding on the consequence of early Universe growing SMBHs on the evolution of massive galaxies.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose for NIRSpec IFU G395M/F290LP to observe the only known z> 7 heavily obscured radio-loud AGN candidate (COSW-106725). Conservatively using a medium background noise level, we set up our ETC calculations using the full detector paired with the NRSIRS2 readout mode, chosen to reduce detector noise and lower the data volume as best we can. For our exposures, we chose a combination of 37 groups per integration, 2 integration per exposure, and 4 dithers, achieving a total science time of 6hrs and 1min on the science target. Our total science time is partially driven by obtaining a S/N in the integrated 4 mum continuum of at least S/N > 5 within the half-light radius of the galaxy (~0.3"). This S/N not only does ensures robust detections of the lines of interest, but most importantly, it provides a resolved constraint on the level of star-formation in the galaxy without AGN contamination.

We chose to not have a PA constraint for our observations, as any angle is acceptable for keeping the target source within the NIRSpec IFU 3x3 arcmin field of view.

Additionally, we chose not to include a dedicated IFU background pointing for our observations, based upon results from ERS collaborations showing that a dedicated background pointing is not necessary for the medium- and high-resolution gratings (e.g., TEMPLATES ERS collaboration, private comm.).

Fortuitously, our target has a great amount of flexibility in scheduling windows, with the majority of the observing window being not impacted by the micrometeorite avoidance zone scheduling.