---
id: 6078
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Joshua Blackman  Co-PIs: Camilla Danielski"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "13.08/0.0"
program_title: "Confirmation of a Jovian Planet Analog Orbiting a White Dwarf, Rare Low-mass Neutron Star or Black Hole"
type: "GO"
---
# 6078 - Confirmation of a Jovian Planet Analog Orbiting a White Dwarf, Rare Low-mass Neutron Star or Black Hole
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6078
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                  | Observing Template | Science Target        |
| :--------------------- | :----------------- | :-------------------- |
| 477 NIRCAM SUB400 P    | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) MOA-2010-BLG-477  |

---

## ABSTRACT

Blackman et al. (2021) have discovered the first Jovian-analog planet orbiting a white dwarf, MOA-2010-BLG-477b. This is the first example of an exoplanet that resembles the predicted fate of Jupiter in our own Solar System. Discovered by gravitational microlensing, constraints on the microlensing parallax signal due to the orbital motion of the Earth rule out host stars more massive than the Sun as well as brown dwarf hosts. Meanwhile, Keck adaptive optics observations set an upper limit on the lens brightness that excludes main sequence host stars, leaving a white dwarf or very low-mass neutron star or black hole host as the only remaining possibilities. Confirming its nature will provide the first observed example of the end stage of a planetary system like our own and is a unique opportunity to constrain the pollution and long-term dynamical evolution of planets in wide orbits. In the unlikely case the host is not a white dwarf, the outstanding discovery of a planet around a low-mass Neutron star or black hole would nonetheless be significant.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This proposal aims at detecting the white dwarf (or low mass neutron star/black hole) in the exoplanetary microlensing event MOA-2010-BLG-477 using four short and four long NIRCam filters. Two sets of observations are planned, one deep observation to detect the target and a second short set of exposures on the same field in order to avoid saturating reference stars needed for flux calibration and characterizing the point-spread function.