---
id: 6083
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Nimisha Kumari  Co-PIs: Renske Smit"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "6.88/0.0"
program_title: "Probing the ionzing sources of Pox 186: the best local analogue of reionization era galaxies"
type: "GO"
---
# 6083 - Probing the ionzing sources of Pox 186: the best local analogue of reionization era galaxies
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6083
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label             | Observing Template                | Science Target      |
| :---------------- | :-------------------------------- | :------------------ |
| All bands Bkg     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) LEDA-46982-BG   |
| All bands Target  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) LEDA-46982      |

---

## ABSTRACT

One of the frontier goals of observational cosmology is to understand the epoch of reionization and its connection to the early star-forming galaxies, which show several high-ionization lines (e.g., CIV). While these distant sources are too faint to put tight constraints on stellar population models, local metal-poor dwarf galaxies are also found to have similar spectral features in the UV and IR as the high-z galaxies and can be used as reliable analogues. A local (z ~0.0040705), metal-poor (12 + log(O/H) = 7.87) blue compact dwarf galaxy, Pox 186, exhibits the brightest CIII] 1908 A emission (equivalent width, EW ~36 A) observed in the local Universe, along with an extreme [OIII] 88 micron/[CII] 158 micron (~ 10) and a bright optical [OIII]+Hbeta emission (EW~1800A). Such extreme EWs and line ratios are comparable to those observed in galaxies at redshifts of z ~ 6-7, when the reionization process is thought to be completed. We request JWST Cycle 3 time to obtain mid-infrared (MIR) spectroscopy for this galaxy using MIRI/MRS, to obtain high S/N constraints on the high ionization MIR emission lines, as it will allow us map out the shape of the ionizing spectrum. Uninhibited by dust attenuation, fine-structure lines such as [OIV] will tightly constrain the ionizing spectrum up to and beyond the Helium limit, where the contribution from interacting binaries starts to dominate. We will confront the most recent stellar population models with the myriad of line diagnostics that MIRI will provide and derive the ionizing photon production efficiency of a unique reionization era analogue.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

With MIRI, we aim to detect high ionization emission lines such as [ArIII], [OIV], [NeV] related to the hard ionizing radiation. Observations will be done using all three gratings (A, B and C) and all 4 channels, thus sampling the entire wavelength range accessible by MIRI. We use 4-point dither as they are optimised for the extended source. The background will be determined via IFU Nod-off scene. Simultaneous MIRI imaging are requested as they are highly recommended for astrometry and data quality. No target acquisition is needed.