---
id: 6084
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging  MIRI/LRS  NIRSpec/FS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Aaron Meisner"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "4.09/0.0"
program_title: "Is CWISE 1055+5443 the first young Y-type brown dwarf?"
type: "GO"
---
# 6084 - Is CWISE 1055+5443 the first young Y-type brown dwarf?
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6084
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label      | Observing Template           | Science Target |
| :--------- | :--------------------------- | :------------- |
| W1055+5443 | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (1) W1055      |
| W1055+5443 | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) W1055      |
| W1055+5443 | MIRI Imaging                 | (1) W1055      |

---

## ABSTRACT

Y-type brown dwarfs (Teff <= 500 K) overlap in mass and temperature with giant exoplanets, providing unique laboratories for studying cold atmospheres, free from contaminating glare of a host star. However, substellar objects cool gradually over billions of years and thus suffer from a fundamental degeneracy between age, temperature, and mass which is not readily disentangled via the observable spectral energy distribution. At present, no Y dwarf is known to be young, and none has any age constraint more accurate than +/- 20-30+%. This lack of Y dwarf ages critically limits our ability to test brown dwarf (and exoplanet) evolutionary and atmospheric models. At a very nearby distance of just 6-8 parsecs, CWISE 1055+5443 (Teff ~ 500 +/- 150 K) is the first strong candidate for a young Y dwarf. Its nearly complete kinematics yield a > 98% probability of membership in the Crius 197 moving group (only 180 +/- 9 Myr old), and its peculiar 1-2.4 um spectrum favors very low gravities log(g) ~ 3-3.5, also consistent with youth. We will use NIRSpec/G395H to measure an accurate (uncertainty ~ 1-2 km/s) radial velocity for CWISE 1055+5443, completing its kinematic profile and conclusively testing its young moving group membership. We will further combine JWST NIRSpec and MIRI from ~1-21 um to accurately measure a bolometric luminosity and hence temperature for CWISE 1055+5443, providing a unique anchor for brown dwarf evolutionary models. JWST is the only facility capable of accurately measuring the radial velocity or bolometric luminosity of CWISE 1055+5443.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

In this JWST proposal we have targeted a nearby and potentially young Y-type brown dwarf in order to complete its kinematic profile with a radial velocity, obtain a full 1-21 micron spectral energy distribution, calculate bolometric luminosity, and investigate the atmospheric chemistry resolved in JWST data. We propose to acquire a NIRSpec/G395H spectrum along with low resolution MIRI/LRS and NIRSpec/PRISM spectra. The G395H grating covers the peak of the flux for our target where an accurate radial velocity, as well as detailed chemistry, can be measured from absorption features. The NIRSpec/PRISM and MIRI/LRS data along with a few MIRI photometric data points will allow us to calculate a bolometric luminosity anchoring all observations with this fundamental observed parameter.