---
id: 6086
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS  NIRSpec/FS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Kimberly Ward-Duong  Co-PIs: Mickael Bonnefoy"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "17.29/0.0"
program_title: "A First Detailed Exploration of Circumplanetary Disk Gas and Dust with NIRSpec and MIRI/MRS Spectroscopy"
type: "GO"
---
# 6086 - A First Detailed Exploration of Circumplanetary Disk Gas and Dust with NIRSpec and MIRI/MRS Spectroscopy
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6086
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                          | Observing Template                   | Science Target                 |
| :----------------------------- | :----------------------------------- | :----------------------------- |
| NIRSpec All Gratings           | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy      | (1) SR-12C-NIR                 |
| MIRI MRS All Gratings          | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy  | (2) SR-12C-MIR                 |
| MIRI MRS Dedicated Backgrounds | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy  | (3) Background-for-SR12C-MIR   |

---

## ABSTRACT

The nature of the Galilean moons of Jupiter and the recent discoveries of accreting protoplanets indicate that circumplanetary disks (CPD) form during the formation of gas giant planets and their satellites. However, these reservoirs of gas and dust have proven more challenging to detect than the disks surrounding brown dwarfs and stars. The dearth of CPD detections in deep submillimeter surveys suggests that they are compact and depleted in large grains suggesting that they are better suited for study in the near- and mid-infrared. Thus, JWST provides excellent capabilities with which to explore these systems in detail. We propose the first in-depth spectral characterization of the gas and dust properties of a CPD by obtaining ~1-27µm spectra of SR 12 c using both NIRSpec and MIRI/MRS. The target is a wide-orbit 11 Jupiter mass companion with the hallmarks of a massive and actively accreting CPD: 1) significant infrared excess, 2) multiwavelength accretion signatures, and 3) a sub-millimeter disk detection, all making it an ideal candidate for this study. The high signal-to-noise observations of SR 12 c will provide a benchmark NIR-MIR spectrum of a CPD, which will allow for a novel study of dust grain processing through measurements of crystalline vs. amorphous silicates, and provide insights into gas composition and disk chemistry by constraining the nature and abundance of volatiles within the CPD.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to use NIRSpec high-resolution fixed slit and MIRI MRS spectroscopy to obtain 0.97 - 27.9 m spectra of the young planetary mass companion SR 12 c, which hosts a circumplanetary disk (CPD). SR 12 c is unique as a CPD host in that it has photometric mid-infrared excesses indicating circumplanetary dust, accretion line emission from multiple diagnostics with measured accretion rates, and the detection of sub-millimeter continuum dust with ALMA. This object is the lowest-mass companion with a disk SED amenable for moderate-resolution spectroscopic study with JWST, and an ideal choice of candidate for detailed disk grain and chemistry characterization in a circumplanetary environment.

The three major anticipated results from this program will be: (1) the first benchmark spectra of a circumplanetary disk spanning the NIR-MIR; (2) the first-ever study of dust grain processing in circumplanetary disks via measurement of crystalline vs. amorphous silicates; (3) and a disk chemistry study that offers the potential for the first-ever detection of volatiles in circumplanetary disks (CO, CO2, H2O, C2H2, HCN) as well as disk winds indicative of disk evolutionary state.

The proposed observations involve both NIRSpec and MIRI in tandem. We proposed for observations across all three of the NIRSpec high-resolution gratings, including the S200A1 and S200A2 modes in order to bridge the detector wavelength gaps. A total integrated science time of 1.2 hours on source for all three gratings will yield SNR~50 across the spectrum, enabling detection of molecular species at levels requisite to determining gas-to-dust ratios and C/O compositions. For MRS, we propose to obtain the full MRS spectrum across all three sub-band configurations, which will provide observations of the suite of molecular gas features (water vapor, CO2, and hydrocarbons) and silicate features requisite for determining the gas abundances of the CPD and the state of its disk dust grain evolution. The MRS observations are designed to reach SNR~50-60 in the continuum excess across Channels 1-3 in 3.7 hours/sub-band (11.1 hrs total science time on source). Considering all slew and acquisition and related overheads, we request 17.3 hours in total to provide the first ever NIR-MIR spectrum of a CPD.