---
id: 6095
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Jeremy Darling"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "9.43/0.0"
program_title: "Where is the Antimatter? Identifying the Galactic Positron Engines"
type: "GO"
---
# 6095 - Where is the Antimatter? Identifying the Galactic Positron Engines
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6095
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label          | Observing Template         | Science Target        |
| :------------- | :------------------------- | :-------------------- |
| Sgr A*         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy   | (1) SgrA              |
| Sgr A*         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy   | (1) SgrA              |
| GA             | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy   | (2) Great-Annihilator |

## ABSTRACT
The existence of antimatter in the form of positrons has been observed in the Galaxy via 511 keV annihilation photons for half a century, but the astrophysical engines producing the positrons have yet to be identified. Numerous plausible sources of positrons have been proposed, some of which are distributed and some of which are pointlike such as Sgr A*, stellar-mass black holes, and compact X-ray binaries. If the Galactic matter-antimatter annihilation is dominated by point sources, then JWST is the only facility that can detect them. Studies of the annihilation gamma-ray spectrum show that nearly all annihilation events are preceded by the formation of an electron-positron bound state called Positronium (Ps), a hydrogen-like "atom" where the proton is replaced by the positron. Positronium has quantum transitions with half the energy of hydrogen: its Lyman alpha line has a wavelength 243 nm, H-alpha is 1.31 microns, and Paschen alpha is 3.75 microns. There will therefore be Ps "recombination" emission lines that precede annihilation. These are faint but within the reach of JWST, and ground-based observations have thus far been unable to adequately remove terrestrial atmospheric spectral features, despite custom-built spectrometers. We propose to address the mystery of the sources of Galactic antimatter by observing two likely Ps engines in the Pa-alpha transition: Sgr A* and the Great Annihilator. Both detection and lack of detection will provide important insight into positron production mechanisms and the general physics of high-energy phenomena. Theory alone has so far been unable to identify the dominant mechanism for antimatter production.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION
We propose to obtain NIRSpec G395H/F290LP IFU spectra of the region around Sgr A* and the Great Annihilator to search for the Paschen alpha "recombination" emission line of positronium at 3.75 microns. This transition is expected to be the brightest as observed due to the high dust extinction for Lyman alpha and Balmer alpha transitions. IFU observations will use a 4-point nod to minimize backgrounds and maximize S/N. The spectral resolution may slightly resolve the emission line, so spectral smoothing can be used to enhance S/N. The emission line is expected to be faint but detectable with S/N~20 in 10 ks if the source of electron-positron annihilation not diffuse. If the source of Galactic 511 keV emission is from several dominant point sources, the S/N will be reduced correspondingly, but detection should still be possible. Following previous JWST observations of the Sgr A* vicinity using the NIRSpec IFU in program 1939 that did not include the positronium line, we use 25 groups per integration and 9 integrations per exposure with NRSRAPID readout. Nearby and in-IFU dither pattern sources will not saturate the detector.