---
id: 6116
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Mohammad Saki"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "11.72/0.0"
program_title: "Testing Natal Heritage Among Comet Dynamical Families: A JWST Study of Parent Volatiles in Halley-Type Comets."
type: "GO"
---
# 6116 - Testing Natal Heritage Among Comet Dynamical Families: A JWST Study of Parent Volatiles in Halley-Type Comets.
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6116
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                     | Observing Template        | Science Target      |
| :------------------------ | :------------------------ | :------------------ |
| 12P NIRSpec               | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (3) 12P             |
| 12P NIRSpec Background    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (4) 12PBACKGROUND   |
| 13P NIRSpec               | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (1) 13P             |
| 13P NIRSpec Background    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (2) 13PBACKGROUND   |
| Q6 NIRSpec                | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (5) P2001Q6         |
| Q6 NIRSpec Background     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (6) P2001Q6Background |
| S3 NIRSpec                | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (7) C2023S3         |
| S3 NIRSpec Background     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (8) C2023S3Background |
| A2 NIRSpec                | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (9) C2024A2         |
| A2 NIRSpec Background     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (10) C2024A2Background |
| E1 NIRSpec                | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (11) C2023E1        |
| E1 NIRSpec Background     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (12) C2023E1Background |

## ABSTRACT

We propose to use the James Webb Space Telescope's (JWST) NIRSpec instrument to study the parent volatiles of six Halley-type comets (HTCs). Despite their importance in understanding the relationship between Oort cloud comets (OCCs) and Jupiter-family comets (JFCs), HTCs have been understudied due to their relatively long orbital periods. Our study will use NIRSpec IFU (G395H/F290LP) to examine the composition and spatial distribution of multiple parent volatiles in cometary coma, including H2O, CO, CO2, CH3OH, C2H6, CH4, and HCN. Our proposed observations aim to understand the heritage and evolutionary processing of volatiles incorporated into HTCs by analyzing the “hypervolatiles” CO, CH4, and CO2 along with other volatiles chemistry. We will compare our results with other comets from different dynamical classes. Our measurements will provide unprecedented details on the coma chemistry and volatile content of a suite of HTCs and will help to answer fundamental questions about evolutionary processes on the primordial properties of comets from different source regions as well as inform chemical models of the protosolar disk.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The proposed observations will generate spectral and spatial infrared data spanning ~ 2.8–5.3 microns. These measurements will characterize the parent volatile (originally stored in the nucleus at the time of formation) compositions in six Halley type comets (a rarely studied dynamical class of comets). So far there are only two Halley type comets with parent volatiles measured (1P/Halley and 8P/Tuttle). NIRSPEC IFU (G395H/F290LP) will be used to sample parent volatiles, including organic molecules (H2O, CO, CO2, CH4, C2H6, CH3OH, and HCN). Cometary comae are extended and emission features will likely fill the NIRSpec FOV, therefore an off-source observation of the background will be required. A four point dither will be used and there is no target acquisition requirement for our proposed observations. Our targets will have an angular motion within the JWST's tracking capabilities while maintaining the solar elongation of 85-135 degrees in the proposed windows.