---
id: 6130
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Ryan Boyden"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "16.4/0.0"
program_title: "The most typical planet formation in the most typical environments"
type: "GO"
---
# 6130 - The most typical planet formation in the most typical environments
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6130
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template                | Science Target     |
| :---- | :-------------------------------- | :----------------- |
| SRC47 | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) SRC47          |
| SRC25 | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (5) SRC25          |
| SRC27 | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (6) SRC27          |
| SRC16 | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (7) SRC16          |
| SRC23 | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (8) SRC23          |
| SRC38 | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (9) SRC38          |
| SRC55 | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (10) SRC55         |
| SRC50 | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (11) SRC50         |

## ABSTRACT

The inner (<10 AU) regions of protoplanetary disks are where most planets form locally, therefore understanding the structure, composition, and evolution of the inner disk is crucial to interpreting the demographics of exoplanets. We propose joint JWST MIRI-MRS and ALMA 0.87 mm observations of 11 protoplanetary disks in the Orion NGC 1977 region. NGC 1977 is a young stellar cluster with a UV radiation field that is weaker than those found at the centers of O-star-hosting clusters, but stronger than those found in low-mass star-forming regions (SFRs). These “intermediate” UV fields are the most common external UV radiation field strengths found in Galactic SFRs, yet disk properties in intermediately irradiated SFRs remain poorly constrained. Theoretical work suggests that intermediate external UV fields may dramatically affect the chemical evolution of the inner regions of protoplanetary disks through enhanced irradiation of the outer disk and subsequent mixing of the outer and inner disk. Our program will test this hypothesis by measuring the inner disk chemical inventories and outer disk mm dust reservoirs over a representative sample of intermediately irradiated disks. With these measurements, we will be able to 1) determine whether intermediately irradiated disks have different inner disk compositions than disks in low-mass (i.e., weakly irradiated) SFRs, and 2) identify the dominant physical mechanisms driving the observed chemical differences (or lack thereof). This program will constrain the initial conditions of planet formation in the most common environments of star formation, and it will complement ongoing Cycle 1/2 MIRI-MRS surveys of other disk populations.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to use JWST MIRI MRS to observe 11 disks in the NGC 1977 cluster. Since we aim to obtain complete spectral coverage, we require exposures in all three grating settings: SHORT (A), MEDIUM (B), and LONG (C). Each observation begins with Target Acquisition to minimize fringing which can reduce the data quality. Exposure times are determined such that we achieve a S/N > 300 between 6 and 18 microns, where the main spectral features needed for our science are located. To maximize the scientific output of this program and improve astrometric solutions of individual MRS exposures, we take simultaneous imaging in the F560W, F770W, and F1000 filters at no extra cost. Since we expect the inner-disk mid-IR emission to be essentially point-like with MRS, we adopt a 4-point dither pattern.