---
id: 6138
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Cosimo Marconcini  Co-PIs: Anna Feltre"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "53.27/0.0"
program_title: "MIRACLE: Mid-IR Activity of Circumnuclear Line Emission"
type: "GO"
---
# 6138 - MIRACLE: Mid-IR Activity of Circumnuclear Line Emission
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6138
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label              | Observing Template                  | Science Target          |
| :----------------- | :---------------------------------- | :---------------------- |
| NGC1068-MIRI       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) NGC-1068-MRS        |
| NGC1068-BK MIRI    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) NGC-1068-BK         |
| NGC1808-MIRI       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) NGC-1808-MRS        |
| NGC1808-BK MIRI    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) NGC-1808-BK         |
| NGC1566-MIRI       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (5) NGC-1566-MRS        |
| NGC1566-BK MIRI    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (6) NGC-1566-BK         |
| NGC1365-MIRI       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (7) NGC-1365-MRS        |
| NGC1365-BK MIRI    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (8) NGC-1365-BK         |
| NGC4593-MIRI       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (9) NGC-4593-MRS        |
| NGC4593-BK MIRI    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (10) NGC-4593-BK        |
| NGC424-MIRI        | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (11) NGC-424-MRS        |
| NGC424-BK MIRI     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (12) NGC-424-BK         |
| IC5063-MIRI        | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (13) IC-5063-MRS        |
| IC5063-BK MIRI     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (14) IC-5063-BK         |
| NGC3783-MIRI       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (15) NGC-3783-MRS       |
| NGC3783-BK MIRI    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (16) NGC-3783-BK        |

---

## ABSTRACT

Galaxy evolution is tightly connected to the central Active Galactic Nuclei (AGN) through the interplay between the accretion of gas onto the central super massive black hole (SMBH), the circumnuclear star-formation (SF) activity, and AGN feedback mechanisms. Recent results from ALMA and MUSE show that these mechanisms can be investigated by looking at inner regions of the AGN with high spatial (<100 pc) and spectral resolutions. JWST is already transforming our comprehension of galactic evolution, providing an unique insight on gas physics, morphology and kinematics at unprecedented spatial resolution. Employing MIRI we will have access to a plethora of low-to-high ionisation atomic emission lines and rotational transitions of H2. With modern suites of photionisation and kinematic models, we will map the gas ionisation source, kinematics and morphology at 20-150pc resolution, for each gas phase. Finally, we will quantify the interplay between different gas flow phases at similar sptial resolution, constraining the gas flow energetics and impact on the ambient gas. Our sample of nearby Seyfert galaxies is selected to have confirmed molecular and ionised outflows, traced by CO and [OIII] emission. We will target the circumnuclear gas with MIRI IFU to cover the full spectral range from 5-29 microns.

With the proposed observations we will provide the community with a long-lasting legacy value sample for all the future studies of local galaxies and the interactions between AGN and their hosts. Moreover, we will set the stage for more extensive studies of multi-phase and multi-scale gas physics, morphology, and kinematics.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will use MIRI to observe the mid-IR spectrum of 8 nearby Seyfert galaxies: NGC1068, NCG1808, NGC 1566. NGC1365, NGC4593, NGC424, IC5063 and NGC3783 We will obtain the full spectral coverage from 5 to 29micron of the circumnuclear region using MIRI in IFU MRS configuration. Exploting the full diagnostic power of mid-IR features we will study the physical conditions of the atomic and molecular gas phases in the cirucmgalactic medium. This multi-phase view will enable us investigate how and to which extent the (total) AGN energetics and circumnuclear environment impact the properties and evolution of the host galaxy.

**Observing strategy:**
All our targets are very nearby and extended source. Therefore, we will need a 4-pt dither pattern for the MRS mode to improve the spatial sampling, choosing a dedicated background region for sky subtraction off the focus. For MIRI MRS we choose the FASTR1 readout pattern for each of the three gratings (Short, Medium and Long). We computed the exposure times requiring a S/N > 6 per resolution element for the weakest line of interest in each grating (as inferred from the optical/UV spectra of the proposed targets). With the proposed observing times we estimated the other mid-IR emission lines to reach at least a S/N > 20. This set up will enable us to cover the emission features that trace the different phases of the circumnuclear medium: fine-structure emission lines from atomic gas, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon (PAH) features and warm molecular gas H2 transitions, with a sufficient signal and spatial resolution to spatially resolve the each gas phase emission.
For our purposes we do not need to take MIRI images on the sources.

**Justification of Special Requirements:**
To be able to subtract in an efficient way the background noise, we require that all the MIRI/MRS observations of the nuclear regions are sequenced as non-interuptable with the corresponding MRS observations.