---
id: 6139
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Coronagraphy"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Brendan Bowler  Co-PIs: Yifan Zhou"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "23.16/0.0"
program_title: "Angular Momentum Architectecture of the HR 8799 Planetary System"
type: "GO"
---
# 6139 - Angular Momentum Architectecture of the HR 8799 Planetary System
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6139
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                  | Observing Template           | Science Target  |
| :--------------------- | :--------------------------- | :-------------- |
| HR 8799-Roll 1         | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (1) HR-8799     |
| HR 8799-Roll 2         | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (1) HR-8799     |
| ups Peg-PSF Reference  | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (2) -ups-Peg    |
| ups Peg-PSF Reference  | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (2) -ups-Peg    |

## ABSTRACT

HR 8799 is a system of four directly imaged giant planets orbiting at 15-70 AU. Asteroseismology of the host star, patient orbit monitoring of the planets, and resolved sub-mm observations of the outer cold disk all point to overall alignment of the system's angular momentum vectors. The only missing components are the planetary obliquities, which are expected to have been aligned at formation but can be tilted through post-formation processes including orbital migration, resonances with other planets, or interactions with moons. We propose NIRCam coronagraphic monitoring of all four HR 8799 planets in F200W and F444W to determine the angular momentum architecture of this unique system and test whether post-formation dynamical interactions have impacted the orientation of their spin axes. Rotation periods will be coupled with radius estimates and recently measured projected rotational velocities of the planets to determine their inclinations, offering the first glimpse of the spin states of giant planets locked in mean motion resonance outside of the Solar System. Furthermore, this rich dataset will be used to study cloud layers via wavelength-dependent variability, compare the atmospheric dynamics of "sibling" planets, and conduct the deepest search for an outer "planet f" with sensitivity down to sub-Saturn masses.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The goal of this program is to measure rotationally modulated variability from the four HR 8799 planets in NIRCam F444W and F200W with the MASK335R coronagraph. The planets have contrasts of ~8-10 mag at 4.4 microns and separations of 0.3-1.7", so this program will employ both ADI and RDI with a reference star. This 17-hour monitoring program will be split into two roll angles to facilitate ADI processing, and will subsequently target a reference star for RDI.