---
id: 6151
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging  NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Taehwa Yoo  Co-PIs: Adam Ginsburg"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "10.16/0.0"
program_title: "The determination of the upper initial mass function in the nearest massive star-forming region, W51A"
type: "GO"
---
# 6151 - The determination of the upper initial mass function in the nearest massive star-forming region, W51A
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6151
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                      | Observing Template | Science Target      |
| :------------------------- | :----------------- | :------------------ |
| W51A-NIRCam imaging        | NIRCam Imaging     | (3) W51A-NIRCAM     |
| W51A MIRI IMAGING          | MIRI Imaging       | (1) W51A            |
| W51A MIRI IMAGING background | MIRI Imaging       | (2) W51background   |

## ABSTRACT

The universality of the initial mass function (IMF) is still an open question. The compilation of observation has been reported that the slope of the IMF has non-negligible scatter and moderate deviation from the canonical IMF models, possibly due to the observational uncertainties and/or environmental effects. The acquisition of the IMF in very young (t<1Myr) star-forming region is expected to eliminate the great uncertainty in estimating the initial mass from tracing back the evolution of evolved stars. Therefore, we propose to observe (proto)stars in W51A, the nearest young and massive star-forming region with NIRcam and MIRI. In particular, we are focusing on the upper IMF as W51A is the best target to observe the birth of massive stars given its age (t<1Myr) and mass (M>10^4 Msun). The another advantage of observing this region is that we can exploit the catalog of dust core and YSOs provided by ALMA observation. Especially, the comparison of the core mass function and the IMF will provide an unique opportunity of directly observing an evolution process from core to star in the same region. As a byproduct of NIRcam and MIRI observation, a rich information of YSOs will be provided. With this data, the evolution of YSOs can be explored by classifying YSOs with spectral slope. Finally, we expect to verify the star formation model by measuring the mean protostellar luminosity and by examining the possible primordial mass segregation.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

In order to determine the IMF in the massive star-forming region, W51A, we request the following NIRCam and MIRI imaging observations.

The target is placed at the center of the W51A where W51 main substructures is placed. We used the same position of apertures for both NIRCam and MIRI imaging.

For NIRCam imaging of W51A, we made observations with 5 pairs of filters, (SW, LW) = (F162M, F335M), (F182M, F360M), (F210M, F410M), (F140M, F480M), (F187N, F405N). FULLBOX-3 dithering pattern is chosen to cover a large area. After considering the data rate, each observation has readout pattern = SHALLOW2, Groups/Int=5, Integration/Exp=1, Subpixel dither type=SMALL-GRID-DITHER, small grid dither=2. This leads to the total dithers=8 and the total exposure time for each observation=1890 sec.

In MIRI imaging, we selected F560W, F770W, F1000W, F1280W, F2100W. We choose 4-Point-Sets dither because our targets are mostly point sources. To prevent saturation, we made observation plan with readout pattern=FASTR1, Groups/Int=5, Integration/Exp=1, Exposures/Dither=1 with total dither=4. This gives total exposure time per each observation=55.501 sec. We request the special requirement for aperture V3PA range from 105 to 125 degrees in order to cover the ALMA-IMF footprint.

This setup ensures to observe a low-mass (0.09 Msun) star and a faint YSO (80 percentile of various YSO models) with S/N>10 and no saturation of a bright YSO (20 percentile of various YSO models).