---
id: 6154
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging  NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Anna de Graaff"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "6.4/0.0"
program_title: "Enabling accurate velocities for science with the NIRSpec MSA: simultaneous wavelength and LSF calibration"
type: "GO, Calibration"
---
# 6154 - Enabling accurate velocities for science with the NIRSpec MSA: simultaneous wavelength and LSF calibration
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6154
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                | Observing Template                 | Science Target                    |
| :------------------- | :--------------------------------- | :-------------------------------- |
| NIRCam preimaging    | NIRCam Imaging                     | (6) newloc-preimage               |
| Omega Cen            | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (12) OCen_APT_merged_refl_v5      |

## ABSTRACT

Multi-object spectroscopy with the NIRSpec microshutter array (MSA) has proven to be one of the most popular modes on JWST for extragalactic science. By the end of Cycle 2, 15,000 MSA spectra will have been obtained across 0<z<13. Moving beyond initial studies that focused primarily on redshift confirmation and the detection of individual emission lines, recent studies have started to exploit the full sensitivity and resolving power of NIRSpec. This science pushes the limits of the instrument capabilities and calls for precise calibrations. Currently, differences in line wavelengths between gratings exceed nominal calibration uncertainties by a factor 5, and prevent simultaneous modeling of multiple observations. The instrument line spread function has also been reported to differ from expectations by up to a factor 2. Calibration programs thus far have focused on single stars or planetary nebulae, which suffer from the severe undersampling of the PSF by the large detector pixels. We propose to exploit the multiplexing power of the MSA by observing 20-25 red giant stars within a crowded region on the sky with all medium- and high-resolution gratings. The large number of narrow absorption features will mitigate undersampling issues that affect individual line centroid and width measurements, providing wavelength and LSF calibration with the high precision needed to enable velocity measurements of high-redshift galaxies (black hole masses, kinematics, outflows, and halo masses) with the MSA. These data will also provide first insight into distortion of the PSF across the MSA and its effect on flux calibration.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will observe red giant stars in Omega Centauri with the NIRSpec MSA to calibrate the trace model and line spread function of NIRSpec. We have selected stars from the Gaia ESA archive that are bright (G<18.5) and have well-determined proper motions. The source density in the region is sufficiently high to fill the MSA with 20-25 targets without overlapping traces in the high-resolution gratings.

We will observe these stars using 3-shutter slitlets and a 3-nod pattern, for all six medium- and high-resolution gratings. We tailor exposure times to the individual filter/grating pairs, to ensure sufficient continuum SNR needed to robustly measure velocity offsets and the LSF from the several thousand faint absorption features present in the stellar spectra. We will use the NRSIRS2RAPID readout mode and 2 integrations per exposure, to avoid saturation for the brightest stars. With this set-up we will observe 5, 10, 12, 15, 15, 20 groups per integration for the G140M, G140H, G235M, G235H, G395M and G395H gratings, respectively.

One of the primary goals of this program is wavelength calibration. Targets will fall within the microshutters with random intrashutter offsets, which will lead to small offsets in the dispersion direction. This needs to be corrected for to be able to calibrate the trace model. We therefore require accurate target acquisition using the MSATA. However, the calibration targets are brighter than the saturation limit for MSATA. The quality of the proper motion measurements for fainter stars in the field is not sufficient for the accuracy needed in this program. Existing HST imaging in this field covers the very dense center of the globular cluster, which is too crowded for successful MSATA. Therefore, we will obtain NIRCam pre-imaging of fainter stars in the outskirts of the globular cluster to obtain accurate astrometry for the MSATA. We will use the 8NIRSPEC dither pattern and observe with the F150W and F277W filters, with 5 groups per integration using the BRIGHT1 readout mode.

We have uploaded an example placement of the pre-imaging location and mask design. This will be altered depending on the assigned observing window to optimize the number of red giant stars in the mask.