---
id: 6193
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRISS/SOSS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Emily Pass"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "22.48/0.0"
program_title: "A Search for Exoplanet Satellites that are the Same Size as the Earth's Moon"
type: "GO"
---
# 6193 - A Search for Exoplanet Satellites that are the Same Size as the Earth's Moon
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6193
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label      | Observing Template                     | Science Target |
| :--------- | :------------------------------------- | :------------- |
| TOI-700 d  | NIRISS Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy | (1) TOI-700    |
| TOI-700 e  | NIRISS Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy | (1) TOI-700    |

---

## ABSTRACT

With its proven ability to achieve an RMS precision of 5 ppm in white-light transit curves, JWST with NIRISS/SOSS provides a novel opportunity to find Moon-analog (0.27REarth) exomoons around the terrestrial planets of M dwarfs. While no conclusive detections of exomoons have been reported to date, planet formation theories predict that such satellites should be a common outcome of the collisional dynamics in early exosolar systems. Exomoons have the potential to open the door to a multitude of new avenues to learn about exoplanet systems, speaking to topics of habitability, tidal heating, planet formation, late-stage growth, planetary compositions, and more. The standout best system to conduct a first search for rocky moons is TOI-700, which contains two habitable-zone terrestrial planets that present a large dynamically allowed region in which moons could exist. The next best system is TRAPPIST-1, which has already been observed: We present an analysis of the TRAPPIST-1 h data that shows we can rule out moons down to 40% the size of the Earth's Moon. Although there exist several other known exoplanet systems where JWST could search for such moons, we emphasize that the TOI-700 planets alone account for nearly half of all dynamically allowed phase space when summing over all systems, owing to their long orbital periods. The discovery of a habitable-zone Earth-Moon analog would be a transformative discovery; likewise, a non-detection would allow us to rule out an occurrence rate in excess of 12%.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to observe one transit of each of TOI-700 d and e with NIRISS/SOSS using the SUBSTRIP256 subarray mode and the NISRAPID readout pattern. Our proposed observations include sufficient out-of-transit baseline to detect the transit of a moon orbiting one of these planets, which can be separated from the planet by as much as half of the Hill radius. The length of our requested out-of-transit observations include this Hill time component, the uncertainty in the transit midpoint time, 0.5 hours for detector burn-in preceding the transit, 0.5 hours of buffer on each end to ensure we have out-of-moon-transit baseline on both sides, and an extra hour to provide a sufficiently large timing window to avoid incurring a scheduling penalty.

The two observations are Time Series Observations with No Parallel Attachments. We set the number of groups per integration such that we do not exceed 90% of saturation. We use the primary source for target acquisition. We include F277W sequences to allow the 1st order to be isolated from the 2nd in the overlap region.

We use the NIRISS contamination planning tool from the Universite de Montreal to select a position angle range that minimizes background contamination. While a small amount of background contamination will not be prohibitive for our white-light search for exomoons, we nevertheless strive to keep this contamination small to maximize the usefulness of the data to those who might wish to use these observations for transmission spectroscopy.