---
id: 6213
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging  MIRI/LRS  NIRSpec/FS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Melissa Shahbandeh  Co-PIs: Chris Ashall"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "15.06/0.0"
program_title: "Unraveling cosmic dust origins: JWST revelations from legacy observations of SN 2023dbc"
type: "GO"
---
# 6213 - Unraveling cosmic dust origins: JWST revelations from legacy observations of SN 2023dbc
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6213
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label          | Observing Template                | Science Target |
| :------------- | :-------------------------------- | :------------- |
| NIRSPEC        | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy   | (1) SN2023dbc  |
| MIRI/LRS       | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy  | (1) SN2023dbc  |
| MIRI/Imaging   | MIRI Imaging                      | (1) SN2023dbc  |
| NIRSPEC        | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy   | (1) SN2023dbc  |
| MIRI/LRS       | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy  | (1) SN2023dbc  |
| MIRI/Imaging   | MIRI Imaging                      | (1) SN2023dbc  |

---

## ABSTRACT

During JWST Cycle 1, a "once-in-a-decade" event transpired -- SN 2023dbc, a Type Ic supernova, exploded in M108 at only ~10 Mpc. The proximity of this SN offers a unique opportunity to study the details of dust formation in the early Universe and to probe its total "dust budget." While asymptotic giant branch (AGB) stars have been considered to be the primary producers of dust in the local Universe, at high redshifts they are not expected to significantly contribute to the dust budget of the Universe. Stripped-envelope supernovae (SESNe) come from the death of the most massive, shorter-lived stars, and are therefore one of the earliest possible sources of cosmic dust in the Universe. No SESN has occurred close enough to monitor dust formation from early to late times, until now. Remarkably, JWST Cycle 1 observations of SN 2023dbc have revealed both the fundamental and first vibrational bands of CO and SiO (dust precursors), and scheduled Cycle 2 observations will trace their early evolution. Yet, to fully understand how dust is formed in SESNe, a longer time series of data is required. By analyzing the evolution of molecular bands at later epochs, as well as capturing the early formation of dust features, the exact conditions in the ejecta during the dust formation can be determined. Here we request 23.9 hr of JWST time to follow SN 2023dbc at three epochs from 600-1200 d past maximum. With these data, the molecular emissions will be used to measure the exact conditions for dust formation in the ejecta. The observations will also create a legacy data set that can be used to model dust formation and investigate the poorly-constrained ejecta composition of SESNe.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We request 23.9 hr of JWST time to to obtain a NIRSpec+MIRI time-series of the nearby SN Ic 2023dbc at three epochs from 600-1200 d past maximum. With these data, the molecular emissions will be used to measure the exact conditions for dust formation in the ejecta. The observations will also provide a legacy data set from which to model dust formation and uniquely probe the poorly constrained ejecta composition of SESNe.