---
id: 6219
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "MIRI/LRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Achrene Dyrek  Co-PIs: Pierre-Olivier Lagage"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "14.94/0.0"
program_title: "MIRI LRS Slit for transiting exoplanet observations"
type: "GO, Calibration"
---
# 6219 - MIRI LRS Slit for transiting exoplanet observations
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6219
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template            | Science Target     |
| :---- | :---------------------------- | :----------------- |
| 1     | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) HAT-P-12MAIN   |
| 2     | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) HAT-P-12BCKG   |

---

## ABSTRACT

In this calibration proposal we offer to explore the feasibility of using the MIRI LRS in fixed-slit mode for the atmospheric characterisation of transiting exoplanets, observed when the planet passes in front of its host star. We aim to explore the possibility of expanding the range of accessible targets for TSOs with the MIRI LRS mode; exploiting the superior sensitivity of the LRS fixed-slit mode to probe cooler, lower-mass and fainter stars than are accessible with the LRS slitless mode, and avoiding some of the challenging systematics observed in the SLITLESSPRISM subarray so far. These observations will allow us to (1) compare the performance of the instrument in fixed-slit and slitless configurations for a known target that has been extensively observed with JWST (2) understand the parameter space of exoplanet physical properties in which the LRS in fixed-slit mode is most valuable for time series observations; and (3) produce a calibration recipe for these observations that can be adopted by the JWST calibration pipeline and offered to the community.

This calibration proposal has been approved by STScI MIRI team members (please see helpdesk ticket INC0194552).

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We chose to observe the transit of HAT-P-12b with the MIRI LRS fixed-slit mode as a Time Series Observation (TSO). The observation consists of a total of 1552 integrations composed of 9 groups and divided into 3 exposures/dither. We chose 3 exposures/dither to make sure that we remain below the 10 000 s exposure limit set for MIRI LRS slit observations. The dithering pattern we chose is the MAPPING one with 2 spatial steps that removes integrally the target from the slit to obtain a proper background estimation. HAT-P-12b is the most suited target for this calibration proposal as it has been extensively observed with JWST NIRISS, NIRSpec and MIRI LRS slitless during cycle 1 (PID 1281) and is observable with the LRS in fixed-slit mode; which has a lower dynamic range than its slitless counterpart.