---
id: 6221
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Hideki Umehata  Co-PIs: Charles Steidel"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "24.85/0.0"
program_title: "H-alpha mapping of a giant, prototypical Lyman-alpha blob at z=3"
type: "GO"
---
# 6221 - H-alpha mapping of a giant, prototypical Lyman-alpha blob at z=3
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6221
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label             | Observing Template        | Science Target |
| :---------------- | :------------------------ | :------------- |
| NIRSpecIFU LAB1   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (1) LAB1IFU1   |

## ABSTRACT

Lyman-alpha blobs (LABs) are bright and extended Lyman-alpha nebulae in the early universe. LABs are suggested to be bright knots of the cosmic web filaments, where galaxy growth takes place during the active baryon cycle, such as gas fueling, feedback, and recycling. Thanks to the brightness, therefore LABs offer an invaluable opportunity to visualize distributions and kinematics of surrounding HI gas and understand interplay with growing galaxies. However, the resonant Lyman-alpha line alone is insufficient, and on top of Lyman-alpha, a new tracer of the nebulae is required. The detection and measurement of hydrogen H-alpha flux can be a powerful tool for tracing gas originating from recombination.

In this proposal, we aim to map H-alpha and other key diagnostics lines in the giant, prototypical LAB, SSA22-LAB1 at z = 3.1, utilizing a four-pointing mosaic of NIRSpec-IFU. In tandem with multi-wavelength data including VLT/MUSE, Keck/KCWI, and ALMA, we will uncover (i) what is the dominant Lyman-alpha powering mechanism, (ii) what is the origin of the heating source, (iii) what is the prevalence and roles of satellite galaxies, and (iv) how metal enrichment proceed during the baryon cycle.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Our target is SSA22-LAB1 at z=3.1, which is a giant LAB hosting dusty star-forming galaxies identified with ALMA. We propose the 4-pointing mosaic observation of NIRSpec-IFU with the G235M grism and F170LP filter to map H-alpha and other key diagnostics lines in the Lyman-alpha brightest region.

The H-alpha emission, our primal target line, is redshifted to 2.7um at z=3.1. We select the combination of G235M grating and F170LP filter. This configuration enable us to observe a wavelength range of 1.66–3.07 um with nominal resolving power R=1000, and hence suitable to detect the H-alpha line with moderate spectral resolution. A set of key diagnostics line, including [O III]4363, [O III]4959, 5007, [N II], H-alpha, H-beta, will be simultaneously observed for z=3.1 objects. We will also consider to use them.

We do not request target acquisition observation and adopt TA method=“VERIFY ONLY” since the original pointing accuracy for guide stars (about 0.1 arcsec) is good enough for us. The verified image will be used to check the achieved astrometry and combine the all 4-pointing data. We select 10-point CYCLING dither type with SMALL size to achieve good spatial sampling and cosmic-ray rejection. The exposures are configured with NRSIRS2 readout pattern, 23 groups, 1 integrations. This results in total exposure time of 17000s per field. We request two sets of 2 rows × 1 columns mosaic, which will consist of 4-pointing mosaic. For each, “leakcal” exposures are planned to correct this contamination from the finite contrast MSA shutters. We do not request extra off-source pointing because background will be calculated from sufficient empty regions within the IFU FoVs.