---
id: 6284
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/GTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Brandon Coy"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "13.68/0.0"
program_title: "Searching for Signatures of Surface-Atmosphere Interaction on a Small Planet in its Magma Era"
type: "GO"
---
# 6284 - Searching for Signatures of Surface-Atmosphere Interaction on a Small Planet in its Magma Era
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6284
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                        | Observing Template       | Science Target  |
| :--------------------------- | :----------------------- | :-------------- |
| Transit 1, F332W2            | NIRCam Grism Time Series | (1) HD-207496   |
| Transit 1, F332W2 - Repeat of Obs 1 | NIRCam Grism Time Series | (1) HD-207496   |
| Transit 2, F444W             | NIRCam Grism Time Series | (1) HD-207496   |

---

## ABSTRACT

Despite early results from JWST, the nature of sub-Neptune atmospheres remains elusive. Models predict that interaction between a sub-Neptune's hydrogen-rich atmosphere and an underlying global magma ocean will outgas large amounts of water vapor to the observable atmosphere. This process would affect many commonly-retrieved observables, such as the C/O ratio, metallicity, and H2O/CO2/CH4 abundances of the planet's atmosphere. The effects of magma-atmosphere interaction are expected to be most pronounced in young and small sub-Neptunes warm enough to prevent water vapor condensation in the lower atmosphere. The best planet for observing this scenario is the recently discovered warm mini-Neptune HD 207496 b (age 520 Myr, T=743 K, R=2.25 Re).
We propose to use the NIRCam long-wavelength grism to measure the 2.41-5.08 micron transmission spectrum of HD 207496 b to search for signatures of magma-atmosphere interaction. If high mixing ratios of H2O and CO2 alongside a highly-depleted C/O ratio are observed, it will provide the first observational evidence for magma-atmosphere interaction and transform our understanding of water sources for small worlds. Our observations will also provide much-needed constraints on the atmospheric properties of the smallest sub-Neptunes.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will observe two transits of HD 207496 b using the NIRCam long-wavelength grism and F332W2 & F444W filters. One transit will use the F322W2 filter, BRIGHT1 readout pattern, and 4 groups per integration, for an SNR of 265 per intergration according to the online JWST ETC. The other transit will use the F444W filter, BRIGHT1 readout pattern, and 7 groups per intergration for an SNR of 240 per intergration. Target acquistion can be done on the star itself with an SNR of 390.
The duration of each observation will be 297 minutes, which is the sum of twice the transit duration (212 minutes) + 60 minutes + 25 minutes = 297 minutes per visit. We include a 60 minute timing window before our observations to ensure that they can be efficiently scheduled. The additional 25 minutes is needed for thermal settling of the telescope, based on past observations with the same instrument on the similarly bright star HD 149026.