---
id: 6361
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/FS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Katherine Follette"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "20.92/0.0"
program_title: "Bridging Accretion Mechanisms from Stars to Planets with NIR Diagnostics"
type: "GO"
---
# 6361 - Bridging Accretion Mechanisms from Stars to Planets with NIR Diagnostics
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6361
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                 | Observing Template             | Science Target                      |
| :-------------------- | :----------------------------- | :---------------------------------- |
| CT Cha b              | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (1) V-CT-CHA-B                      |
| CHXR 73 b             | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (2) CHXR-73B                        |
| Isolated Accretor 1   | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (3) ISOLATED-ACCRETOR1-J1106-7618 |
| Isolated Accretor 2   | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (4) ISOLATED-ACCRETOR2-J1110-7642 |
| Phot. Template 1      | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (5) PHOT-TEMPLATE-1-J1110-7714    |
| Phot. Template 2      | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (6) PHOT-TEMPLATE-2-TWA-29        |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose to conduct an innovative line ratio based comparison of NIR accretion diagnostics for bound and unbound planetary-mass objects in the ~2Myr Chamaeleon Star Forming Region with NIRSpec fixed-slit spectroscopy. The hydrogen series lines accessible only to JWST (including Paschen alpha and Brackett beta), combined with JWST's unique sensitivity to traditional accretion line diagnostics at very low flux levels (Paschen Beta, Brackett Gamma) will enable discrimination between traditional magnetospheric paradigms of accretion assumed for stars and newly-developed accretion models designed for protoplanets. Critical to our understanding and calibration of accreting protoplanet discoveries, the proposed observations will provide diagnostic line ratios for multiple accretion tracers that will improve relations used to interpret accretion rates for accreting protoplanet candidates such as PDS70bc, Delorme 1 (AB) b, etc. With a uniform sample of planetary-mass objects of the same spectral type and age that includes both bound 'planetary' companions and 'free-floating' isolated objects, we will be able to inform whether the accretion mechanisms governing the formation of these objects differ depending on companionship, illuminating the origins of young giant planets and rogue planetary-mass objects.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

**Overall Strategy**
We propose to acquire high resolution spectroscopy with the S200A1 slit and G140H/F100LP, G235H/F170LP, and G395H/F290LP configurations. All six of the proposed targets will be observed using the same configuration to provide a uniformly comparative dataset and enable calibration through precise continuum subtraction of photospheric emission, enabling the scientific goals of detection of faint emission line accretion diagnostics.

**PA Special Requirements**
In order to minimize contamination from the stellar halo and diffraction spikes in the fixed slit spectra of the companion, and to avoid dithering motions moving the primary star into the slit, aperture position angle restrictions are required for the two companion objects in the proposed study. PA restrictions are as follows:
CT Cha b: Observe at 150-270 deg or 330-90 deg
CHXR 73 b: Observe at 90-200 deg or 270-20 deg (observations are 10 deg more restrictive due to closer separation of CHXR companion).
The remaining four targets do not have special requirements.

**Target Acquisition**
Target acquisitions have been calculated in the ETC separately for each of the six targets in the proposed program, based upon target spectral type and magnitude. All observations use the SUB2048 or SUB32 array and various readout patterns to reach a minimum SNR~35.

**Exposure Times, Groups, and Integrations**
All exposure times have been calculated using the JWST ETC to achieve sensitivity to line ratios for the emission line diagnostics targeted in this study, specifically aiming to reach line sensitivities of a ~few x 10^-17 erg/s/cm2, necessary to discriminate between various accretion physics models. ETC simulations with lines at various sensitivities injected were performed, reaching S/N in each mode of ~113 (G140H), ~70 (G235H), and ~38 (G395H). The maximum numbers of groups were selected in order to minimize noise and avoid saturation, with corresponding integrations used to reach the total exposure time in three separate slit dither positions. As all of our targets have comparable NIR magnitudes and are selected to share very similar physical properties (i.e., temperature and spectral type) the total integrations are largely the same for all of the targets in the study. The one non-Chamaeleon target, TWA 29, has a correspondingly shorter exposure time due to the fact that it is much closer and two magnitudes brighter.