---
id: 6362
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Emily Rickman  Co-PIs: Daniella Bardalez Gagliuffi"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "30.22/0.0"
program_title: "Breaking the degeneracy: substellar anchors for evolutionary models"
type: "GO"
---
# 6362 - Breaking the degeneracy: substellar anchors for evolutionary models
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6362
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label      | Observing Template    | Science Target   |
|------------|-----------------------|------------------|
| HD13724    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) HD-13724     |
| HIP99770   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (2) HIP-99770    |
| GJ758      | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (13) GJ-758-B    |
| HD33632    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (4) HD-33632     |
| HD47127    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (11) HD-47127-B  |
| HIP21152   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (6) HIP-21152    |
| HD72946    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (7) HD-72946     |
| HR7672     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (12) HR-7672-B   |
| HD4747     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (9) HD-4747      |
| HD984      | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (10) HD-984      |

## ABSTRACT

We propose to build the gold standard of calibrators for brown dwarf and exoplanet models with JWST. By definition, brown dwarfs have insufficient masses to sustain hydrogen fusion in their cores, which causes them to cool down over time since they never reach thermodynamical equilibrium. This age-mass-luminosity degeneracy is the principal challenge to the characterization of brown dwarfs and exoplanets alike. Brown dwarf evolutionary and spectral models are routinely used to compare with exoplanet data, which intrinsically suffer from lower SNR due to their proximity to their host star. In order to anchor evolutionary models in measured physical parameters and chemical abundances, we request NIRSpec/IFU spectroscopy on a sample of brown dwarf companions to solar-type stars with measured dynamical masses from previous direct imaging in age-calibrated benchmark systems. This carefully mass- and age-calibrated sample will set the basis for testing, calibrating, and identifying physical processes missing in evolutionary and spectral models.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Our goal is to obtain F290LP/G395H spectra of a sample of directly-imaged brown dwarf companions to solar-type stars.

All observations have been simulated with the ETC, on notebook #177465.

The spatially-resolved IFU cubes will allow modeling and subtraction of the stellar PSF halo to obtain high SNR spectra. The higher contrast companions will utilize the observing and data analyses strategy following Ruffio et al. 2023. We will use the 9-pt small size CYCLING dithering pattern to improve the spatial sampling for all IFU obs. Detector settings are chosen to ensure uniform SNR of all the companions while also minimizing saturation of the host star, which often requires using as few groups as possible.

Dithers
As recommended, for good spatial sampling of the PSF halo, in each observation we use the CYCLING dither, size small, with 9 points to prevent the companions from being too close to the edges.

Offset Pointing Special Requirements
We apply an offset for each of our targets. This places the companion as central in the FOV as possible and at least a few hundreds of milliarcsecs away from the edge of the FOV, providing good tolerance to pointing uncertainties, while keeping the host PSF in a corner of the field of view.

PA special requirement
PA range is required to avoid placing the science target along the spiders.