---
id: 6377
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS  NIRSpec/FS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Matthew Kenworthy  Co-PIs: Richelle van Capelleveen"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "16.76/0.0"
program_title: "When worlds collide: formation and evolution of a synestia"
type: "GO"
---
# 6377 - When worlds collide: formation and evolution of a synestia
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6377
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label          | Observing Template                | Science Target     |
| :------------- | :-------------------------------- | :----------------- |
| MRS all bands 1 | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) ASASSN--21qj |
| MRS all bands 2 | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) ASASSN--21qj |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose to confirm and characterise a candidate 'synestia', the self luminous remnant produced by a collision that occurred in 2019 between two ice giant exoplanets orbiting a Sun-like star, ASASSN-21qj. The unique sensitivity of JWST at thermal infrared wavelengths will enable the direct detection and spectral identification of chemical species in this post-impact body.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Our science goals are:
- Confirm the identification of the phenomena observed in ASASSN-21qj as a post-impact remnant.
- Constrain the mass and composition of the synestia by measuring the time evolution of its spectral energy distribution.
- Quantify the presence of water vapour, silicates and/or other refractory materials in the synestia's photosphere with medium resolution spectroscopy.

We will observe the star ASASSN-21qj and its orbiting synestia that is formed out of a recent collision between planetary mass objects. Our goal is to observe the decay in flux as the synestia dissipates and cools down, thus we request the same set of observations at two epochs separated by about 3 months. Each set of observations will cover the 4.8-28.8 micron range with the four channels of the MIRI Medium Resolution Spectrometer. We set a "Before Date" and "After date" constraint for the first and second sets of observations respectively to ensure they are separated by at least 3 months.