---
id: 6379
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Maryame El Moutamid  Co-PIs: Matthew Tiscareno"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "10.82/0.0"
program_title: "Structure and Dynamics of The Rings and Inner Moons of Uranus"
type: "GO"
---
# 6379 - Structure and Dynamics of The Rings and Inner Moons of Uranus
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6379
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :------------------------------ | :----------------- | :----------------- |
| NIRCam Deep | NIRCam Imaging | (1) URANUS |
| NIRCam Color | NIRCam Imaging | (1) URANUS |
| Residual Persistence Check | NIRCam Dark | NONE |

## ABSTRACT

Uranus is unlike any other planet in the Solar System, not only because of its high axial tilt of ~98 degrees, which may reflect an early giant impact, but also because of its ring-moon system that features a closely-spaced configuration and generally low albedos, suggesting a non-icy composition, yet to be elucidated. NIRCam data will provide key parameters for a better understanding of the current configuration, history, origin, age, and evolution of its rings and moons. Furthermore, JWST observations of the faint and dusty rings will characterize the zeta ring and other material in the ring plane orbiting near Uranus's cloud tops. This will also provide time-critical knowledge about potential hazards that will help shape the planning of NASA's Uranus Orbiter and Probe (UOP) mission.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

**NIRCam Deep Imaging:** We will use NIRCam to obtain our deepest survey of faint rings and small satellites in the Uranus system. These images will be centered on Uranus and employ the FULLP subarray, providing a 900,000-km field of view in the short-wavelength detector. This will encompass the entire system out to the orbit of Titania, and may even capture a brief appearance by Oberon near an image corner. We use the two widest filters, F150W2 and F322W2, to maximize our sensitivity to small moons and faint rings. Although Uranus will be heavily saturated, the moons and rings will not be. Similar observations of the Jupiter system in ERS program 1373 have shown that NIRCam is quite capable of obtaining clear images of faint moons and rings adjacent to a heavily overexposed planet.

**NIRCam Color Imaging:** A set of images through six wide filters (F090W, F115W, F150W, F227W, F356W, and F444W) will augment our NIRCam observations by providing broad color information across the entire system, including the moons that would require an excessive amount of JWST time to study using NIRSpec. Color information is also critical to our understanding of the particle sizes in the faint, dusty rings, because the observed color of dust particles varies with their size (as is illustrated by blue color of the mu ring). Our planned integrations are shorter than those in our deep imaging, so we will not be able to use them for the faintest components of the system. However, a newly discovered moon only 5 km in diameter would have SNR 5-10 in our color images. Note that, in order to maximize our integration times, we omit dithering in our NIRCam color images. Because small moons move and rings are extended sources, dithering is not critical to these observations.