---
id: 6384
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Driss Takir"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "18.28/0.0"
program_title: "Low-Albedo and Inclination Asteroid Families as Tracers for Water and Organics in the Inner Solar System"
type: "GO"
---
# 6384 - Low-Albedo and Inclination Asteroid Families as Tracers for Water and Organics in the Inner Solar System
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6384
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template       | Science Target |
| :---- | :----------------------- | :------------- |
| 2441  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) 2441       |
| 6712  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (2) 6712       |
| 6769  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (3) 6769       |
| 6769  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (3) 6769       |
| 495   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (4) 495        |
| 163   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (5) 163        |
| 752   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (6) 752        |
| 302   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (7) 302        |
| 313   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (9) 313        |
| 84    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (8) 84         |

## ABSTRACT

Collisional impacts between asteroid-sized objects are common in our solar system history and have played a significant role in forming asteroid families [1]. Low-albedo (geometric albedo < 0.07) and low-inclination (i < 150) asteroid families in the inner main belt (IMB) between the v6 secular resonance at ~2.15 AU and the 3:1 mean-motion resonance with Jupiter at ~2.5 AU are particularly intriguing because they were proposed to be the possible sources of low-albedo and water-rich (hereafter primitive) near-Earth asteroids (NEAs) [2, 3]. Primitive NEAs are the parent bodies of the least-altered meteorites, the carbonaceous chondrites, and harbor valuable historical records of the early solar system [4]. These NEAs are rich in water and carbonaceous materials, critical key elements relevant to the origin of life on Earth. Investigating the origin and source of primitive NEAs in the IMB will help us trace the origin of water and complex organics that may have been delivered to Earth by these NEAs. Here, we propose to use JWST's NIRSpec Integral Field Unit (IFU) to acquire spectra (0.6-5.3 µm) of IMB family members and directly compare them to those of primitive NEAs to test the dynamical theories that postulate that the IMB region is the source of primitive NEAs.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Our low-albedo and inclination inner main belt family targets include members of the New Polana, Eulalia, Erigone, Sulamitis, Clarissa, Chaldaea, and Klio families. We propose using NIRSpec Integral Field Unit (IFU) to acquire our targets' low-resolution spectra (~0.6-5.3 µm) and investigate their surface composition. The instrument setup will include the NRSIRS2RAPID readout pattern with a 4-POINT-DITHER to reduce overheads. All objects will be observable by NIRSpec for over a month during the Cycle 3 observational window. These objects have well-defined orbits, which have negligible uncertainty in the ephemerides, > 0.15". The object's V magnitudes were estimated by the JPL Horizons tools and vary between 13.84 and 19.66, in their faintest appearance. Additionally, all objects are outside of the galactic plane and are not affected by field stars' contamination in Cycle 3. For the brightest objects in our target list, we will use the medium-resolution gratings (G140M/F100LP, G235M/F170LP, G395M/F290LP), while for the faintest we will use the PRISM mode. Exposure times were estimated in a way that our targets can be observed at any observation window in Cycle 3 without risk of saturation, and reaching the desired SNR to address our proposed science goals.