---
id: 6405
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Sam Cutler  Co-PIs: Katherine Whitaker"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "20.27/0.0"
program_title: "Clumpy Relics: The First Spectroscopic Confirmation of Globular Clusters at z~3"
type: "GO"
---
# 6405 - Clumpy Relics: The First Spectroscopic Confirmation of Globular Clusters at z~3
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6405
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label   | Observing Template      | Science Target                |
| :------ | :---------------------- | :---------------------------- |
| Clumps  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) UNCOVER35602-Clumps       |
| Clumps  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) UNCOVER35602-Clumps       |
| Host    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (4) Group UNCOVER35602-Host   |

---

## ABSTRACT

With the discovery of "The Sparkler," JWST has opened up uncharted parameter space in the distant universe: remarkable high resolution views of ancient globular cluster (GC) candidates. There exists another fascinating galaxy in the Abell 2744 lensing cluster at even higher redshift that is littered with compact red and blue star-forming complexes - "The Relic". The Relic is a bright, quenched galaxy at z=2.67, merely a few billion years after the Big Bang. These clusters are potential GC candidates, with the red ones consistent with ancient relics, while the blue ones may be caught early in their formation (before possible disruption). However, these clumps will remain GC candidates until spectroscopically confirmed.

We propose a detailed spectroscopic follow-up using 20 hrs of NIRSpec IFU PRISM/CLEAR in order to:
1) confirm if the clusters are associated with the Relic,
2) robustly constrain the age, stellar mass, and other physical properties of the GC candidates
3) analyze clump survival timescales to inform theories of bulge formation that rely on infalling star-forming clumps.

Obtaining robust spectra for such faint objects will leverage the groundbreaking sensitivity and resolution of JWST, serving as proof-of-concept for a growing population of distant galaxies containing the first ancient relics of GCs.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Our science goals are achievable with three pointings using the PRISM/CLEAR disperser-filter: (1) 0.5 hr in PRISM/CLEAR centered on the bright, main target grouped with (2) an identical 0.5 hr exposure of sky background, and (3) 14.5 hr in PRISM/CLEAR on the GC candidate pointing. We will use the NRSIRS2 readout pattern as it significantly reduces the correlated 1/f noise, important for obtaining the sky background. For the 14.5 hr pointing, we will observe with four integrations per exposure of 15 groups per integration. We are using a 12-point medium cycling dither pattern to have enough dithers to build robust background sky spectra excluding regions containing the main galaxy and clump candidates. For the 0.5 hr grouped pointings, we will observe in a 4-point small cycling dither pattern with a single integration per exposure and 8 groups per integration. The galaxy is extended mainly in one direction, hence we require two pointings at different depths in order to move along the semi-major axis, plus a third background pointing to keep a sufficient number of blank sky spaxels available. The medium cycling dither pattern for the deep exposure also ensures that all the clumps have uniform coverage during dithering. There is a bright star in Abell 2744 that could cause significant MSA leakage at certain position angles (PA). The ideal PA range to avoid this star is between 130 and 280 degrees. However, while the meteoroid safe zone is schedulable (2024-10-21 through 2024-12-16), the JWST General Target Visibility Tool states NIRSpec has a PA range between 31 and 65 degrees, which overlaps with the region of Abell 2744 where significant MSA leakage could occur. To avoid leakage from this bright star, we request a position angle constraint between 34-48 degrees, so that the star falls behind the solid metal plates of the MSA. We request blind pointing target acquisition which is good to 0.1", good enough to land the galaxy close to the center of the 3"x3" FoV.

The combined NIRCam photometry and extract NIRSpec IFU observations for each clump (and the individual spaxels of the bright main target) will be fit with the public Prospector and Bagpipes SED fitting codes to robustly recover their physical properties (stellar mass, star formation rate, dust and metallicity). The NIRSpec PRISM mode is only one sufficient to obtain adequate SNR in the continuum (>3 per resolution element in the rest-optical). We will perform a joint spectrophotometric fit with 20-band JWST/NIRCam broadband and medium-band photometry at the locations of each clump in order to constrain the continuum shape and measure the absorption line strengths. This is facilitated by the NRSIRS2 readout pattern, which reduces correlated noise in the spectrum. S/N estimates for PRISM/CLEAR are computed using the ETC, with the general program methodology modeled after the public APT file of the Sparkler IFU program (GO-2969). Similar lower spectral resolution data with more complexities in terms of background contamination have yielded robust ages from the spectrophotometric analysis of the rest-optical continuum and absorption features (Akhshik+2023), providing significant improvements on the derived physical parameters relative to photometry alone.