---
id: 6451
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 6
instrument_mode: "NIRISS/Imaging  NIRISS/WFSS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Anthony Gonzalez"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "7.4/0.0"
program_title: "The Onset of Environmental Quenching: Star Formation and Quenching Fractions in a Massive Galaxy Cluster at z=1.75"
type: "GO"
---
# 6451 - The Onset of Environmental Quenching: Star Formation and Quenching Fractions in a Massive Galaxy Cluster at z=1.75
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6451
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label             | Observing Template                       | Science Target            |
| :---------------- | :--------------------------------------- | :------------------------ |
| NIRISS Slitless   | NIRISS Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (1) IDCSJ1426.5+3508      |
| NIRISS F440W      | NIRISS Imaging                           | (1) IDCSJ1426.5+3508      |

## ABSTRACT

We propose a program targeting the dense environments associated with the galaxy cluster IDCS J1426.5+3508 (z=1.75). This program will quantify the quenching timescales of cluster galaxies as functions of stellar mass and cluster-centric radius. Quenching is normally parameterized as an exponential decline in star formation with a quenching time-scale, which can be used to discriminate between various physical mechanisms that operate on different timescales. Observing a cluster near the transition epoch when cluster cores are in the process of transitioning from sites of active star formation and galaxy assembly to regions devoid of significant star formation activity enables robust constraint of the quenching timescale, as well as the ability to identify mergers and AGN that may be associated with tidal processes. With NIRISS we will be able measure star formation rates down to 5 Msun/yr using H-alpha for all cluster galaxies. In combination with existing HST data we will also be able to determine stellar masses and morphologies for all cluster galaxies, and photometric redshifts for passive cluster members lacking H-alpha detections.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will target the massive galaxy cluster IDCS J1426.5+3508 (z = 1.75) using the combination of NIRISS spectroscopy and imaging. This cluster has extensive space-based and ground-based ancillary data sets.

For the NIRISS spectroscopy we will be using both the GR150C and GR150R grisms with the F200W blocking filter. The use of both grisms is important for disentangling spectra in the dense cluster environment. We select a MEDIUM dither pattern with 4 dither positions, and 6 groups per integration for the spectroscopy. The associated F200W direct imaging will be obtained with six groups per integration and the GRISM=BOTH option which results in a total exposure of 1072 s.

For the NIRISS F444W imaging we will use a medium dither pattern, four dithers, and 6 groups per integration for a total on-source exposure time of 1073 s.