---
id: 6457
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Bjorn Benneke"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "23.15/0.0"
program_title: "Thermal emission of a cool, potentially volcanically active exo-Earth"
type: "GO"
---
# 6457 - Thermal emission of a cool, potentially volcanically active exo-Earth
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6457
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label   | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :------ | :----------------- | :------------- |
| Eclipse | MIRI Imaging       | (1) LP-791-18  |
| Eclipse | MIRI Imaging       | (1) LP-791-18  |
| Eclipse | MIRI Imaging       | (1) LP-791-18  |
| Eclipse | MIRI Imaging       | (1) LP-791-18  |
| Eclipse | MIRI Imaging       | (1) LP-791-18  |

---

## ABSTRACT

Rocky planets are abundant in the Universe; yet our understanding of which and how many of them host atmospheres remains highly limited. Empirical evidence is needed in our quest of understanding the complex interplay between the initial volatile content of rocky planets and the atmospheric loss and replenishment processes that drive the atmospheric evolution. Here, we propose to observe the mid-IR thermal emission of the recently discovered cool exo-Earth LP 791-18d to determine whether an atmosphere is present or not. LP 791-18d orbits a nearby M6 dwarf and is proposed to be volcanically active due to strong tidal heating of its interior, similar to Jupiter's moon Io. The volcanic activity would result in continuous replenishment of LP 791-18d's atmosphere, which our observations will probe for. Our observations are designed to distinguish at 4 sigma confidence between a bare-rock scenario and a CO2-rich atmosphere that efficiently transports heat around the planets, even in the presence of Venus-like clouds. The presence of an atmosphere on LP 791-18d would be a first signal that cool rocky planet around M dwarf can host atmospheres, motivating a larger campaign to probe the prevalence and diversity of secondary atmospheres.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Our observations consist of time series photometry during five eclipses of the tidally-heated rocky planet LP 791-18d. For each eclipse, the observations will be performed with the MIRI F1500W filter and SUB256 subarray. They must be executed in a continuous sequence. Each of the five visits must be timed to coincide with eclipses of the planet. They occur every 2.75 days.