---
id: 6463
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Polychronis Patapis  Co-PIs: Paul Molliere"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "3.56/0.0"
program_title: "Testing a new formation tracer for cold gas giant planets with JWST/MIRI"
type: "GO"
---
# 6463 - Testing a new formation tracer for cold gas giant planets with JWST/MIRI
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6463
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label      | Observing Template             | Science Target      |
| :--------- | :----------------------------- | :------------------ |
| COCONUTS 2B | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) COCONUTS-2-B   |

## ABSTRACT

COCONUTS 2 b is the nearest and coldest directly imaged exoplanet to date. However, it is also the second most widely separated exoplanet from its host star, raising questions about how this 6 Jupiter mass planet formed. With an equilibrium temperature below 500 K, the atmosphere will be dominated by ammonia in the mid-infrared, allowing for the first time the detection of nitrogen isotopes in an exoplanet atmosphere and the use of the 14N/15N ratio as a tracer of exoplanet formation. This novel isotope ratio has been used in the solar system, finding that rocky and icy bodies are more enriched in 15N, similar to protoplanetary disks, than the gas giants which share a composition with nearby pre-stellar cores. By measuring this ratio in COCONUTS 2 b via MIRI/MRS observation, we can compare the isotope ratio to that of the recently observed brown dwarf WISE-J1828, and robustly determine whether it formed through a star-like or planet-like mechanism. This ratio will likely be relevant for new directly imaged exoplanets around mature, nearby stars.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will obtain 1.85 hours of MIRI/MRS observations of the widely-separated, directly-imaged exoplanet COCONUTS 2 b. With a temperature below 500 K, and a distance of only 11 pc, it is the single best candidate for constraining nitrogen isotopes of any exoplanet. We will use all three filters of the MIRI/MRS to obtain an SNR of 10 or better per wavelength channel, sufficient to measure the 14N/15N isotope ratio to a precision of ZZ dex.