---
id: 6474
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/LRS  NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: John Pineda"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "21.22/0.0"
program_title: "T-Dwarf auroral physics: atmospheric impact, total power, and energy partition function"
type: "GO"
---
# 6474 - T-Dwarf auroral physics: atmospheric impact, total power, and energy partition function
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6474
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label        | Observing Template                    | Science Target                        |
| :----------- | :------------------------------------ | :------------------------------------ |
| J1237 NIR    | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series     | (1) 2MASS-J12373919+6526148         |
| J1237 MIR    | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy      | (1) 2MASS-J12373919+6526148         |
| J1047 NIR    | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series     | (2) 2MASSW-J1047539+212423          |
| J1047 MIR    | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy      | (2) 2MASSW-J1047539+212423          |
| W1122 NIR    | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series     | (3) 2MASS-J11225550+2550250         |
| W1122 MIR    | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy      | (3) 2MASS-J11225550+2550250         |

## ABSTRACT

    Aurorae at radio wavelengths indicate that stable large-scale magnetospheric currents can drive persistent energetic electron beams into brown dwarf atmospheres. On Jupiter, these electrical currents produce UV emissions from molecular hydrogen, infrared thermal emission, and H3+ emission through collisional ionization and subsequent ion chemistry. However, emerging evidence points to multiwavelength auroral behaviors on brown dwarfs that differ from Jupiter. Most of the auroral energy deposited in these cool dwarfs dramatically heat upper atmospheric layers and should emerge as thermal emission. New evidence from JWST demonstrates key evidence for such thermal atmospheric inversions. We propose to characterize this thermal structure for 3 auroral T-dwarfs expected to exhibit similar aurorally impacted surface regions. Through spectrophotometric monitoring with JWST across 3-10 microns and joint radio observations of the targets' radio aurorae, we aim to measure (1) the total auroral power of these systems, (2) the efficiency of radio aurorae, and (3) compare the multi-wavelength atmospheric impact across a range of auroral properties. This study measures significant unknowns in the field of brown dwarf aurorae: the total auroral power and multi-wavelength energy partitions.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

    This proposed program will observe 3 cool T-dwarf targets with spectrophotometric monitoring using NIRSpec G395H, and MIRI LRS. The spectrophotometric monitoring will assess variability at 3-5 um ands across 5-13 microns to measure the influence of auroral energy deposition in the atmosphere over a full rotational period (<2.5 hr)

    The impact will be evident through emission features in methane and ammonia, and imply the presense of inverted atmospheric temperature profiles. This program will use the data to infer and model the thermal structure of the atmosphere, and the amount of energy required to produce it. The rotationally variable spectra will be used to further define the surface extent of the auroral regions in order to measure the total power impacting the cool dwarf atmospheres.

    The proposal would also monitor each target with the JVLA at X-band (8-12 GHz) to measure the radio luminosities of the auroral emissions with which to compare against the JWST results from thermal emissions in the IR.

    The program proposes to further compare these effects across the sample with differing auroral properties.