---
id: 6480
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/WFSS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Sander Schouws"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "46.02/0.0"
program_title: "Revealing the Lifecycle and Environment of Massive z~7 Galaxies"
type: "GO"
---
# 6480 - Revealing the Lifecycle and Environment of Massive z~7 Galaxies
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6480
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
**1. List of the Labels, the corresponding Observing Template and the Science Targets**

| Observation Folder | Observing Template               | Science Target       |
| :----------------- | :------------------------------- | :------------------- |
| 1                  | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (1) XMM1-1591        |
| 2                  | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (2) UVISTA-Z-349     |
| 3                  | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (3) XMM1-Z-151269    |
| 4                  | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (4) UVISTA-Z-002     |
| 5                  | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (5) UVISTA-Z-1410    |
| 6                  | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (6) UVISTA-Z-004     |
| 7                  | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (7) UVISTA-Z-049     |
| 8                  | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (8) XMM1-67420       |
| 9                  | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (9) UVISTA-Z-007     |
| 10                 | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (10) UVISTA-Z-019    |
| 11                 | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (11) UVISTA-Z-068    |
| 12                 | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (12) XMM3-Z-1122596  |
| 13                 | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (13) XMM1-Z-1664     |
| 14                 | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (14) UVISTA-Z-009    |
| 15                 | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (15) UVISTA-Z-001    |
| 16                 | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (16) XMM3-Z-432815   |
| 17                 | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (17) UVISTA-Y-004    |
| 18                 | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (18) XMM1-Z-276466   |
| 19                 | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (19) UVISTA-Y-003    |
| 20                 | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (20) XMM3-Z-110958   |
| 21                 | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (21) SUPER8-1        |
| 22                 | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (22) UVISTA-Y-879    |
| 23                 | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (23) UVISTA-J-1212   |
| 24                 | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (24) UVISTA-Y-001    |
| 25                 | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (25) UVISTA-Y-002    |

---

## ABSTRACT

Recent exciting results suggest that the formation of massive galaxies in the early universe built up faster than expected. To better understand this rapid build-up, we will leverage NIRCam Imaging and WFSS to study the lifecycle and environment of 25 of the most [CII]-luminous, massive star-forming galaxies known at z~7.

With WFSS, we will measure the clustering around our targets by detecting ~200 [OIII] emitting neighbor galaxies and determine their halo mass. The halo mass gives invaluable insight into their past and present star formation efficiencies and enables a connection to populations at later epochs. We will test whether these massive LBGs could be the progenitors of the quiescent galaxies found at z~5 and BCGs at z~0. The large number of neighbors also allows us to determine to what extent galaxies are impacted by their environment at z~7 and vice versa.

Deep NIRCam imaging of the rest-frame optical will allow us to measure stellar masses and star formation histories with unprecedented accuracy. We will look for the possible presence of evolved stellar populations to find out whether these LBGs could be the descendants of the z>10 star forming galaxies found recently by JWST. The stellar masses are also essential to understand the mechanisms driving the rapid build up of dust observed with ALMA in our targets.

Finally we will use the synergy between ALMA and JWST to determine the impact of merger-driven growth versus smooth accretion, through both morphology and kinematics.

Our proposed targets are essential to bridge the gap between the more normal, less massive sources found in large area surveys (JADES/CEERS) and rare sources like QSOs.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We request NIRCam wide field slitless spectroscopy (WFSS) and Imaging to efficiently detect a large sample of neighboring galaxies around a sample of 25 massive Lyman Break Galaxies and to study the properties of the LBGs and their neighboring galaxies. We expect to furthermore about >600 z~7 galaxies along the full line of sight of our proposed observations.

We will use 4 imaging filters:
F070W/F090W: A dropout filter to ensure a clean selection of neighboring galaxies without contamination from Halpha or other emission lines at lower redshifts. The precise filter is determined by the LBG redshift.
F115W/F150W + F200W: to accurately measure the UV color of our target LBGs and their neighboring galaxies (expected error on beta +/- 0.2). We make sure that Ly-alpha does not contaminate the blue filter.
F356W/F444W: imaging of the rest-frame optical to determine stellar masses, constrain star formation histories (in particular Balmer breaks) and to study the optical morphology. We make sure that H-alpha does not contaminate this band. The flux from [OIII] and Hbeta can be directly measured from the grism spectrum and subtracted.

An overview of the used filters, the redshift range for which they are used, the integration time and the limiting 5sigma point source sensitivity (3 sigma for the drop-out filters) are given in the table below:

| Filter:                     | f070w | f090w | f115w | f150w | f200w | f356w | f444w |
| :-------------------------- | :---- | :---- | :---- | :---- | :---- | :---- | :---- |
| Used Redshift Range:        | z<7.3 | z>7.3 | z<7.3 | z>7.3 | all   | z>6.6 | z<6.6 |
| Integration time (min):     | 20.8  | 20.8  | 13.6  | 13.6  | 12.9  | 12.9  | 12.9  |
| Limiting magnitude (AB):    | 29.2  | 29.4  | 28.3  | 28.4  | 28.5  | 28.4  | 28.0  |

For the Grism we use 3 filters, depending on the redshift. The filter choice, the relevant redshift range, integration time and expected sensitivity (10^-18 erg/s/cm^2) are given in the table below:

| Grism:                    | f356w | f410m | f430m |
| :------------------------ | :---- | :---- | :---- |
| Used Redshift Range:      | z<6.8 | 6.8<z<7.4 | z>7.4 |
| Integration time (min):   | 35.1  | 35.1    | 35.1  |
| Limiting flux (x10^-18): | 2.4   | 2.3     | 1.9   |

Our aim is to detect [OIII]5007A down to a flux of 3-2x10^-18 erg/s/cm^2. Simulations have shown that this is the best trade-off between the number of neighbouring galaxies and integration time. To achieve this we will integrate about 35 minutes with the grism filter, using a 4 point dither. Simultaneous with the grism integration we will take 2 SW exposures using the drop-out filter and the blue filter. For the direct image we will use the rest-frame optical fiter + F200W.

To be able to detect the continuum from high EW sources at our line detection limit, we aim to achieve a limiting magnitude of 28 mag(AB) in each of our bands, this corresponds with to a conservative limit of [OIII] of EW~1600 (a more typical galaxy has EW~760). (Larger EWs require deeper continuum imaging to detect the host galaxy).

We only use a single dispersion direction (GrismR), this has been used by the majority of previously accepted grism programmes (e.g. FRESCO, EIGER, ASPIRE etc.). Some of these programmes have deeper grism integrations for which source confusion would be a bigger problem. The fact that [OIII] is a doublet helps with robust identification as shown in previous work. We are therefore confident that we can achieve our science goals with this single dispersion direction, saving significant overheads.

As the sources we target in this program have been broadly studied by the wider community and our observations also overlap with popular deep fields, they are of great interest to the wider community. Therefore we waive the proprietary period to enable rapid progress.