---
id: 6491
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Ben Cassese"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "71.62/0.0"
program_title: "Revealing the Oblateness and Satellite System of an Extrasolar Jupiter Analog"
type: "GO"
---
# 6491 - Revealing the Oblateness and Satellite System of an Extrasolar Jupiter Analog
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6491
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template            | Science Target |
|-------|-------------------------------|----------------|
|       | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) Kepler-167 |

## ABSTRACT

Jupiter and Saturn, our best-studied giant planets, likely formed in a very similar way. Consequently, they share many similar features: both host large satellite(s) that formed from the remains of their circumplanetary disks, and both are slightly oblate due to their inability to shed their primordial angular momentum through tidal interactions with the Sun. Each of these properties is thought to be inevitable byproducts of the giant planet formation process, and thus their existence in more distant solar systems is essentially presupposed in our canonical theories. However, neither small moons nor planetary oblateness have been confidently detected in the transits of any planets, let alone cool giant exoplanets. Such measurements are simply not possible with facilities less precise than JWST. Now, however, we propose an opportunity to measure both with a single transit observation; a NIRSpec time series of the well-characterized cool gas giant Kepler-167 e. Injection-recovery experiments suggest that, should this planet be as flattened as Jupiter or Saturn, JWST could confidently detect the oblateness with a signal-to-noise of $>10$ and $>20$, respectively. Similarly, should Kepler-167 e host one or more Galilean-type moons, these observations would recover the satellites with a completeness rate of $(93\pm4)$\%. Kepler-167 e is the ideal target for detecting both moons and oblateness, and indeed given the sensitivity of the proposed observations, non-detections of either would present a compelling scientific mystery. Given the planet's 1000+ day period and JWST's shifting fields of visibility and finite lifetime, there are limited opportunities for this experiment.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We aim to observe one transit of the cool gas giant Kepler-167 e using NIRSpec in its BOTS, PRISM/Clear configuration. This long $\sim59$ hour time series will be broken into six individual exposures to stay under the frames per exposure limit, though these exposures will be taken as close to back-to-back as is allowable.