---
id: 6511
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 3"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Goeran Oestlin"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "116.01/91.63"
program_title: "Galaxy mass buildup in the early universe - ultra deep imaging of the Hubble Ultra Deep Field to 10 microns"
type: "GO"
---
# 6511 - Galaxy mass buildup in the early universe - ultra deep imaging of the Hubble Ultra Deep Field to 10 microns
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6511
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label      | Observing Template | Science Target        |
| :--------- | :----------------- | :-------------------- |
| F770-O1    | MIRI Imaging       | (2) MIRI-XDF-1283     |
| F770-N1    | MIRI Imaging       | (1) MIRI-XDF-new      |
| F770-N2    | MIRI Imaging       | (1) MIRI-XDF-new      |
| F770-NT1   | MIRI Imaging       | (3) MIRI-XDF-new-tweak |
| F770-NT2   | MIRI Imaging       | (3) MIRI-XDF-new-tweak |
| F1000-N1   | MIRI Imaging       | (1) MIRI-XDF-new      |
| F1000-N2   | MIRI Imaging       | (1) MIRI-XDF-new      |
| F1000-NT1  | MIRI Imaging       | (3) MIRI-XDF-new-tweak |
| F1000-NT2  | MIRI Imaging       | (3) MIRI-XDF-new-tweak |
| F1000-NT3  | MIRI Imaging       | (3) MIRI-XDF-new-tweak |
| F1000-N3   | MIRI Imaging       | (1) MIRI-XDF-new      |
| F1000-N4   | MIRI Imaging       | (1) MIRI-XDF-new      |

## ABSTRACT

Despite JWST has delivered science data for just over a year, it is already changing our view of the high redshift universe, finding more distant galaxies than ever before. Among the instruments on JWST, MIRI is unique in its ability to record images at wavelengths beyond 5 micron. This means that only MIRI can study the red rest frame (>0.7 micron) for galaxies at redshifts z>6, and the near IR rest frame (>1 micron) for z>4, which are vital for determining the star formation histories and stellar masses of galaxies. NIRCam is at high redshifts restricted to the UV/blue spectral region where young massive stars dominate the spectrum. Hence, combined deep NIRCam+MIRI surveys will be powerful for tracing the evolution of the galaxy population with redshift. The Hubble Ultra Deep Field has been the target for deep NIRCAM imaging in many filters, spectroscopic surveys with NIRSPEC, and has been observed in filter F560W as part of the European MIRI GTO program. We here propose to complement the NIRCam and F560W observations with very deep F770W and F1000W imaging. This will greatly improve the ability to decipher the star formation history at z>6 by uniquely sampling the continuum on the red side of H-alpha, find H-alpha emitting galaxies, search for the first quiescent galaxies and separate star forming galaxies from AGN at cosmic noon. Moreover, we will study enigmatic sources that are only seen by MIRI (and not by NIRCam). Given the legacy value of the proposed observations, they would be made imediately publically avialable.
We add parallel NIRCam imaging in broad and medium band filters to search for high-z emission line galaxies.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We require low background (10 percentile), and a V3 angle to match the orientation of the MIRI-GTO program (1283) deep F560W imaging for optimal joint coverage.
We take observations using FASTR1 readout, 100 groups per integration, and employ 10 integrations per dither position, and use the CYCLING large dither pattern, for a total of 28000 seconds per dither position.
In total we obtain 70 positions for F1000W and 50 for F770W for a total exposure time of 196 and 140 ks, respectively.
For F770W we do 10 positions at the nominal pointing (same as for existing program 1283 observations in F560W and F1000W),
and 40 at a revised position 20 arcsec to west, to better capture the confirmed z=13 galaxy GS-z13-0. The 70 F1000W positions
are also obtained at this revised position. For the revised position, two different targets are defined, 0.03 arcsec apart in Ra and
Dec to improve on the PSF sampling
The paralell NIRCam images falls in the parallel field of program 1283 and will employ F150W/F182M/F200W and
F250M/F335M/F356W/F430M/F444W for the SW and LW channels, respectively.