---
id: 6543
proposal_type: "ddt"
cycle: 2
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 15.8
program_title: "Stellar Activity Characterization of LHS 1140 - Is LHS 1140 b a Mini-Neptune or a Water World?"
type: ""
---
# 6543 - Stellar Activity Characterization of LHS 1140 - Is LHS 1140 b a Mini-Neptune or a Water World?
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6543
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label        | Observing Template                    | Science Target  |
| :----------- | :------------------------------------ | :-------------- |
| LHS 1140 b   | NIRISS Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy | (1) LHS1140     |
| LHS 1140 b   | NIRISS Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy | (2) LHS-1140    |

---

## ABSTRACT

The masses and radii of the two transiting exoplanets around LHS 1140 (M4.5, J = 9.61) were recently revised with unprecedented precision of 3% (mass) and 2% (radius) for both planets. The LHS 1140 system now stands out as the most favorable system together with the TRAPPIST-1 system to characterize small planets inside the Habitable Zone. These new mass and radius measurements provide new insights on the temperate world LHS 1140 b (Rp = 1.730 Rearth, Teq = 226K). This planet is either a small mini-Neptune with a 0.1% H/He mass envelope (possibly a Hycean world) or a water world (H2O between 9-19% by mass) with a patch of liquid water at the sub-stellar point according to interior structure models and global climate simulations. Cycle 1 observations (GO2334) taken last July 2023, one visit with NIRSpec/G235H and one with NIRSpec/G395H, will be key to confirm/reject the first scenario of a low mean molecular weight atmosphere around LHS 1140 b. However we demonstrate that this instrumental setup is partially blind to stellar contamination that could generate a fake H/He-rich atmosphere signal. Since only 4 transits per year of LHS 1140 b are observable with JWST, we propose to secure the last two remaining transits in Cycle 2 (December 2023) to characterize the star with the shorter wavelengths coverage of NIRISS/SOSS and firmly disentangle unocculted spots/faculae signals from the atmosphere of this keystone temperate world.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to acquire the transmission spectrum of LHS 1140 b with NIRISS/SOSS to quantify the Transit Light Source effect (stellar heterogeneities) on LHS 1140. The shorter wavelength domain of NIRISS/SOSS will constrain stellar parameters such as the spot and faculae covering fractions and temperatures.
We focus on the two remaining observable transits of LHS 1140\,b during Cycle 2 (December 1 and 25, 2023). We provide an observation start window (1 hr) expressed in minimum and maximum phases in APT. The observations are carried with small and acceptable contamination from nearby field sources. We include 10 integrations per visit with the F277W filter to calibrate NIRISS order 2 contamination on order 1.