---
id: 6550
proposal_type: "ddt"
cycle: 2
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 8.6
program_title: "When worlds collide: formation and evolution of a synestia"
type: ""
---
# 6550 - When worlds collide: formation and evolution of a synestia
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6550
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                        | Observing Template                | Science Target     |
| :--------------------------- | :-------------------------------- | :----------------- |
| G235H/F170LP and G395H/F290LP | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy   | (1) ASASSN--21qj   |
| MIRI MRS                     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) ASASSN--21qj   |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose to confirm and characterise a candidate 'synestia', the self-luminous transient produced by a collision that occurred between two ice giant exoplanets orbiting a Sun-like star, ASASSN-21qj. The occurrence rate of these giant impact events is still highly uncertain so this is a unique, time-limited opportunity for the JWST to obtain a spectrum of this extraordinary type of planetary body. The proposed observation will inform us about the nature of the end stages of planet formation and collisions between (giant) planets around solar type stars, and provide a unique insight into the composition of the collision remnant through spectral analysis.

Our science goals are:
*   Confirm and constrain the photospheric size and temperature of the synestia by measuring the spectral energy distribution from 1.7 to 28 micron.
*   Quantify the presence of water vapour, silicates and/or other refractory materials in the synestia's photosphere with NIRSpec FS high resolution spectroscopy from 1.7 to 5.1 micron, and MIRI MRS from 4.8 to 27.9 micron.

The collision, which occurred in 2019, was detected by the NEOWISE mission and was reported on in October 2023. The latest NEOWISE IR photometry shows that the synestia's flux is rapidly fading below the NEOWISE noise limit; JWST is the only telescope that can obtain a mid-infrared spectrum of the photosphere of this astronomical object before it fades below detectability in the second half of 2024. Depending on the temporal evolution of the source, this DDT may be the only and final opportunity to observe the body before it fades below the sensitivity limit.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to observe the star ASASSN-21qj and its orbiting synestia that is formed out of a recent collision between planetary mass objects. We have two scientific goals for our program: to confirm and constrain the photospheric size and temperature of the synestia, and to determine the abundances of the molecules in the synestia's photosphere. To reach these goals, we request to observe the system in the 4.8-27.9 micron range with the four channels of the MIRI Medium Resolution Spectrometer and the 1.7-5.1 micron range with the NIRSpec fixed slits S200A1 and S200A2 and gratings G235H/F170LP and G395H/F290LP. The required NIRSpec science time is 1.87 hours, and the charged time is 4.04 hours. The required MIRI science time is 2.96 hours, and the charged time is 4.54 hours. As ASASSN-21qj has a nearby visual companion and is therefore not suitable for target acquisition (TA), for both NIRSpec and MIRI, TA will be performed on an isolated star 28” away.

Due to the rapidly decreasing flux of the synestia, we have set two timing constraints. The observation must take place before February 16, 2024. The visibility of ASASSN-21qj is currently in the Micrometeroid Avoidance Zone, so this constraint effectively means that the observations must take place between January 15 and February 16. The second timing constraint is that the MIRI and NIRSpec observations are set as a non-interruptible sequence.

For the NIRSpec observations, a PA constraint has been set to not have the nearby visual companion located 3.7 arcseconds away from the target in the slit.