---
id: 6554
proposal_type: "ddt"
cycle: 2
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 8.6
program_title: "Infrared imaging of bipolar features in planetary nebula"
type: ""
---
# 6554 - Infrared imaging of bipolar features in planetary nebula
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6554
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label             | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :---------------- | :----------------- | :------------- |
| PN-CTR NIRCam     | NIRCam Imaging     | (25) PN-CTR    |
| PN-CTR MIRI       | MIRI Imaging       | (25) PN-CTR    |

## ABSTRACT

This is a planetary nebula created as an old low-mass star is shedding its outer layers. Spitzer images show interesting structures in the surrounding material are visible, including an equatorial ring and several bi-polar lobes. We expect the NIRCam and MIRI images to reveal fine structure in the infrared, never before seen.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This proposal will use NIRCam and MIRI imaging to obtain broad and narrow-band imaging of a planetary nebula to be released in 2024. The images must be sufficiently deep to allow for the creation of low-noise color-composite images. The dither patterns are optimized for uniform depth, efficient removal of cosmic rays and other artifacts. The selected MIRI filters produce Nyquist sampled or oversampled PSFs. These criteria will also produce very high-quality, science-ready data products for use by the community. This proposal does not include spectroscopic observations.The observations of the planetary nebula uses narrowband NIRCam imaging in 4 filters to develop a rich color pallette and 2 broadband filters to allow proper white-balance of the star field. F187N and F405N will highlight the strong recombination lines and will contrast with F212N and F470N highlighting cooler H2 gas. The nebula is small enough on the sky to fit in a single NIRCam module, and can be covered with a 1 × 2 MIRI mosaic. The MIRI filters used will include F770W, F1130W, F1280W, and F1800W.