---
id: 6585
proposal_type: "ddt"
cycle: 2
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 9.2
program_title: "The High-z Menagerie: A Rare Chance to Study the Early and Exotic Transient Universe"
type: ""
---
# 6585 - The High-z Menagerie: A Rare Chance to Study the Early and Exotic Transient Universe
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6585
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label      | Observing Template          | Science Target                     |
| :--------- | :-------------------------- | :--------------------------------- |
| NIRSpec    | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (5) v5_withfillers_withrefstars    |
| NIRCam     | NIRCam Imaging              | (1) COSMOS SN1                     |

## ABSTRACT

JWST is the only resource capable of opening the exciting new frontier of high-z (z 3) supernovae (SNe). These transients are red, faint, and slowly evolving but have implications for an evolving initial mass function (IMF), luminosity evolution for Type Ia supernova (SN Ia) cosmology, and stellar evolution in the early universe. Finding new exotic transients amongst normal high-z SNe is even more challenging because of the low predicted rates in a given JWST pointing, requiring a large survey area to find them. An opportunity to find rare SNe has arisen with the serendipitous overlap of two Cycle 1 treasury programs: Public Release IMaging for Extragalactic Research, and the COSMOS-Web survey. For the first time, we are sensitive to a large enough volume to discover several peculiar SN candidates in color-magnitude space. Among these is a pair-instability SN (PISN) candidate at z~3.5, and three candidates (one z~3.5 and two 2<z<3) consistent with SNe Ia, PISNe, or superluminous SNe (SLSNe). Our program will classify these transients, possibly confirm the first true high-z PISN, and put novel constraints on both the high-z IMF and SN Ia luminosity evolution. Additionally, with the rarity of deep, wide, overlapping JWST observations, this represents the best chance to validate a single-epoch candidate prioritization process for exotic SNe discovered in the future. These distant transients evolve on long times scales in the observer frame, and therefore we propose non-disruptive follow-up with JWST using 8.9 hours to address some of JWST's core mission objectives.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This is a non-disruptive but time-critcal DDT. We would greatly appreciate a timely review and decision of our proposal as the beginning of the April window is preferred.

*   **Program design**
    This proposal consists of two parts: (1) NIRSpec/MSA spectroscopy, which will allow spectroscopic classification/characterization of the transients as well as spectroscopic determination of host redshifts, and (2) single-epoch NIRCam imaging, which (combined with the discovery epoch) will allow photometric classification of a larger number of the transients and will constrain a variety of progenitor properties.

*   **Scheduling**
    Note that all the special requirement contraints provided with this APT are tentative and are not meant to be strict requirements for our observations in any sense. In general, we would like to obtain our NIRCam and NIRSpec data as soon as possible, but we do expect our targets to be visible for most or all of the observing window (depending on the types). We can adjust our observing strategy quickly. Our team is very experienced in producing MSA designs with a short timescale.

*   **NIRSpec spectroscopy**
    We will use the NIRSpec/MSA mode to take spectra of multiple transients and their host galaxies. We will use the low-resolution (R~100) prism to capture the spectra of the transients (e.g., supernovae) and to measure the redshifts of the host galaxies. Considering the faintness of many of our targets, we adopted the observing strategy successfully employed by the JADES DDT 6541 with slightly lower exposure times as our targets are brighter: triple dithered, nodded, 9 group NRSIRS2 exposures with 3 ramps in each exposure. Targets covered at all three dithers are therefore exposed for a total of ~18000 s, which should yield S/N>5 for the target spectral features in our sample.

*   **NIRCam imaging**
    We will also conduct NIRCam imaging to measure the light curves of the transients. For the robust identification of SN types, we will construct 4-band light curves using the COSMOS-Web filters (F115W, F150W, F277W, and F444W). With an integration time of ~1250 s per filter, these images will achieve a 5-sigma detection limit of ~28--28.5 AB mag. All of our high-priority targets are expected to be brighter than this threshold.

The total time request is 8.9 hours.