---
id: 6591
proposal_type: "ddt"
cycle: 2
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 8
program_title: "Cracking the Cosmic Calcium Conundrum: Discovering the origin of Ca-rich transient SN 2024uj with late-time infrared spectroscopy"
type: ""
---
# 6591 - Cracking the Cosmic Calcium Conundrum: Discovering the origin of Ca-rich transient SN 2024uj with late-time infrared spectroscopy
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6591
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label             | Observing Template               | Science Target |
| :---------------- | :------------------------------- | :------------- |
| LRS               | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) SN2024uj   |
| NIRSpec Gratings  | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy  | (1) SN2024uj   |

## ABSTRACT

Calcium-rich (Ca-rich) transients are among the most enigmatic cosmic explosions and may be important drivers of galactic chemical enrichment. Despite two decades of observations of these rare and faint objects, we still don't know which of the two fundamentally different stellar evolution pathways produce Ca-rich transients: the gravitational collapse of a massive star or the thermonuclear disruption of a white dwarf. With only 3 ground-based near-infrared (NIR) and no mid-infrared (MIR) spectra for this entire class of objects, infrared spectroscopy is a key missing ingredient to understanding Ca-rich transients. The recent, nearby SN 2024uj provides a unique opportunity to study the infrared characteristics of a Ca-rich transient and test its origin scenario. Here we request 7.9 hrs of DDT to obtain a late-time nebular phase NIR+MIR spectrum of SN 2024uj, opening a new, unexplored window to Ca-rich transients and providing the novel data we desperately need to distinguish between their progenitor systems and determine their role in galactic Ca production. JWST is uniquely powerful enough to reveal the nebular NIR+MIR properties of SN 2024uj, which will be too faint after the upcoming observing window.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will observe the nearby calcium-rich transient SN 2024uj in its late-time nebular phase in a single visit between about 100-160 days post maximum-light. For this observation, we will use the NIRSpec G140M, G295M, and G395M gratings and MIRI LRS to obtain spectroscopic coverage from 1 to 5 microns at medium resolution (R~1000) and 5 to 13 microns at low resolution (R ~ 100). The low-resolution MIR observations cover many important MIR emission lines of Ar, Co, Ni, and Ne; while the higher-resolution NIR data will cover important, less isolated He, Ti, Ca, and Fe emission lines that are either not accessible or very difficult to observe with high S/N (due to the intrinsically faint nature of these objects) from the ground. These NIR + MIR emission lines will allow us to distinguish between different models for the origins of Ca-rich transients.