---
id: 6608
proposal_type: "calibration"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: ""
program_title: "CAL-FGS-202  Geometric Distortion and Scale"
type: ""
---
# 6608 - CAL-FGS-202  Geometric Distortion and Scale
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6608
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :---- | :----------------- | :------------- |
| FGS1  | FGS External Calibration | (1) LMC-ASTROMETRIC |
| FGS2  | FGS External Calibration | (1) LMC-ASTROMETRIC |
| FGS1  | FGS External Calibration | (1) LMC-ASTROMETRIC |
| FGS2  | FGS External Calibration | (1) LMC-ASTROMETRIC |

---

## ABSTRACT

This proposal monitors the geometric distortion & pixel scale of both FGS Guide channels. The LMC astrometric field is imaged via FGS in calibration mode, obtaining full frame images at 5 different positions within the astrometric field for each of the two channels. The mid-point of the catalog will be placed at the center of the FGS channel being calibrated (the other channel will be guiding). This will ensure that (1) the same stars are used to calibrate FGS1 and FGS2, and (2) we will thus obtain an accurate measure of the relative sensitivity of Guiders 1 & 2. This program is similar to FGS Cyle 2 4494. Epoch 1 observations should be done Sep-Oct 2024. Epoch 2 observations should be done Apr-May 2025.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

FGS geometric calibration images: the mid-point of the catalog will be placed at the center of the FGS channel being calibrated (the other channel will be executing the guide function on a single guide star, which need not be an entry in the LMC catalog). This will assure that:
(1) the same stars are used to calibrate FGS1 and FGS2,
(2) we will thus obtain an accurate measure of the relative sensitivity of guiders 1 & 2

The imaging channel will operate in 'calibration mode' using the FGS External Calibration APT template. A 5-point primary dither pattern is used to acquire full frame images of the star field.

Since NIRCam and NIRISS will also be using the LMC astrometric field for the same purpose, it would be of benefit to FGS if they observed the same stars as FGS, as this would provide color information to the FGS team that can be used to refine our understanding of the FGS sensitivity.