---
id: 6615
proposal_type: "calibration"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: ""
program_title: "CAL-MIRI-309  MIRI Last Frame Characterization"
type: ""
---
# 6615 - CAL-MIRI-309  MIRI Last Frame Characterization
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6615
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                   | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :---------------------- | :----------------- | :------------- |
| NGC-2070 Last Frame     | MIRI Imaging       | (1) NGC-2070   |

---

## ABSTRACT

This program will obtain additional data for analysis and calibration of the MIRI Last Frame Effect. Cycle 2 observations provided a great dataset with high SNR for the low-flux regime of both point-source and extended features. These data in combination with similarly designed ground-test data extend the parameter space over which a correction can be created. However, the Cycle 2 data did not adequately sample the full dynamic range of the detectors. This program target, NGC 2070, is a bright source with a mix of complex point-like and extended features which will reach saturation in as few as 5 groups, minimizing required time. In place of dithers, we will tile over a large portion of the target to place the features over a variety of detector pixels.
This calibration program may change in response to system developments and the final Cycle 3 science program.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will obtain imaging of NGC 2070 using a similar strategy to CAL-MIRI-209. In this case, we will obtain 10 pointings, with 10 exposures each of 5 and 6 groups. The 6 group exposures will be used to determine what that 5th group should look like in the absence of the last frame effect. This will give greater than ~40 million samples spanning the full dynamic range of the detectors to fold into the correction.