---
id: 6617
proposal_type: "calibration"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: ""
program_title: "CAL-MIRI-312  Imaging External Flat Field"
type: ""
---
# 6617 - CAL-MIRI-312  Imaging External Flat Field
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6617
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                        | Observing Template | Science Target      |
| :--------------------------- | :----------------- | :------------------ |
| Dense field measureme nts    | MIRI Imaging       | (1) LMC-MIRI-A-IMG  |
| Dense field measureme nts    | MIRI Imaging       | (2) LMC-MIRI-B-IMG  |

## ABSTRACT

    This program will obtain external flat fields for the MIRI imager in a field in the Large Magellanic Cloud (LMC). This task will be achieved using a classical “stacking” approach (i.e., the median of multiple well-dithered observations) and, when enough sources are available, with the “thousand-points-of-light” technique. This technique will allow us to measure the low spatial frequencies (L-flat) with a dither pattern designed to sample the same stars in multiple positions on the detector. This program will (1) compute the flat field and monitor its temporal stability over short and long temporal baselines, (2) study if, and by how much, the core of the MIRI point-spread function (PSF) changes over time, (3) monitor the stability of the geometric distortion of the MIRI imager (mainly at short wavelengths), and (4) monitor the long-term temporal variations of the background.
    This calibration program may change in response to system developments and the final Cycle 3 science program.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

    **OBSERVING DESCRIPTION**
    REQUIREMENTS: No parallel observations should be executed for this proposal. Visits are requested to be obtained within 25 days.
    TIMING CONSTRAINTS: This program should be run once in September 2024, but the schedule has some flexibility (+/-1 month). Missed or failed observations should be repeated as close to September 2024 as possible. This gives a yearly cadence for any trending.