---
id: 6622
proposal_type: "calibration"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: ""
program_title: "CAL-MIRI-336  MIRI LRS Slit Throughput"
type: ""
---
# 6622 - CAL-MIRI-336  MIRI LRS Slit Throughput
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6622
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label              | Observing Template                  | Science Target      |
| :----------------- | :---------------------------------- | :------------------ |
| F770W imaging      | MIRI Imaging                        | (2) WISE J040937    |
| Nod 1 scan         | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy    | (2) WISE J040937    |
| Nod 2 scan         | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy    | (2) WISE J040937    |

## ABSTRACT

This activity will improve our understanding of the MIRI LRS slit throughput as a function of wavelength and position in the slit by scanning a point source across the slit at the two nominal nod positions. These scans will be the same scans used in Cycles 1 and 2. The data will also check the slit throughput far from the slit center and improve our calibration for extended sources. These observations will improve the signal/noise ratio from similar work in previous cycles.

This calibration program may change in response to system developments and the final Cycle 3 science program.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This activity images the AGN WISE J040937 in the F770W filter and scans it across the LRS slit in the two nod positions.
The two scans across the slit are linked as a non-interruptible sequence.

TIMING CONTRAINTS:
Imaging observation: Needs to be during the visibility window that ends on 22 Oct 2024.
Scan observations: Needs to be during the visibility window that begins on 13 Dec 2024.

That pause will allow us to confirm that the AGN is a true point source. If the target fails
that test, we will replan using the backup target.

BACKUP TARGETS:
BD+60 1753, a A0 dwarf used as a standard in multiple MIRI modes.