---
id: 6625
proposal_type: "calibration"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: ""
program_title: "CAL-MIRI-346  MIRI Coronagraph Distortion and Boresight Offsets"
type: ""
---
# 6625 - CAL-MIRI-346  MIRI Coronagraph Distortion and Boresight Offsets
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6625
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label             | Observing Template | Science Target    |
| :---------------- | :----------------- | :---------------- |
| Boresight offsets | MIRI External Flat | (1) NGC-5139      |

---

## ABSTRACT

This program will measure the distortion and boresight offsets for all available filters in each coronagraph subarray. Improved understanding of the coronagraph distortion will help commission all remaining combinations of target-acquisition filter and quadrant, improve tracking of target acquisition trending, and improve distortion-corrected pipeline products.
This calibration program may change in response to system developments and the final Cycle 4 science program.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This APT file is a placeholder for the final program and has been assembled using information currently available. The Cycle 3 JWST GO program 4343, which observes the same target wtih the MIRI imager in the F770W and F1500W filters, will be used to inform the final design of this program. Program 4343 is currently scheduled to execute in the summer, 2024. This program has been constrained so that no observations will be obtained until the targets return to visibility in January, 2025.
We will observe globular cluster omega Cen with the MIRI External Flat template in order to select arbitrary combinations of filters and subarrays. Using the FULL array, we will hold the telescope in position while cycling through all the available target acquisition and coronagraph filters on MIRI. This includes the following filters: F560W, F1000W, F1500W, FND, F1065C, F1140C, F1550C, and F2300C.
Isolated point sources imaged in each filter will allow us to determine the pairwise boresight offsets between filters. During commissioning, it was discovered that these boresight offsets, which had been computed at the center of the full array, were so inaccurate at the position of the cornagraphs that stars were being shifted out of the nulling position. It is critical, then, that the measurement of the boresight offsets for each coronagraph and filter pair be made using sources located in that specific coronagraph.
Furthermore, comparing against high-precision astrometric catalogs of omega Cen will allow us to compute a general distortion solution for the coronagraphs. At the moment, the distortion solution is extrapolated from one derived for the Imager.