---
id: 6629
proposal_type: "calibration"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: ""
program_title: "CAL-NRC-315  Coronagraphy: IWA and Contrast Optimization"
type: ""
---
# 6629 - CAL-NRC-315  Coronagraphy: IWA and Contrast Optimization
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6629
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                               | Observing Template             | Science Target |
| :---------------------------------- | :----------------------------- | :------------- |
| 51 Eri - NIRCam - MASK210R          | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging   | (1) 51-Eri     |
| Ref star - NIRCam - MASK210R        | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging   | (2) HD30562    |
| 51 Eri - NIRCam - MASK335R          | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging   | (1) 51-Eri     |
| Ref star - NIRCam - MASK335R        | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging   | (2) HD30562    |
| 51 Eri - NIRCam - MASKSWB - NARROW  | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging   | (1) 51-Eri     |
| Ref star - NIRCam - MASKSWB - NARROW| NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging   | (2) HD30562    |

---

## ABSTRACT

This is a continuation to Cycle 2 CAL program 4451 (CAL-NIRCAM-215) which aimed at determining the best strategies to use for most high contrast science cases where NIRCam coronagraphy is considered:
- When (not) to use the bar, when to use the small round mask, etc.
- To inform better the community.
The measurements also feed a public and documented PSF library and will be complementary to the GTO 1412: "Characterizing 51 Eridani Exoplanetary System" (executed with the LWB NARROW setup only but with other, more pertinent for science, filters).

The 51 Eri b exoplanet is ideal for this calibration program because it very challenging both in flux and angular separation.
It would be difficult for the community to request it again and very informative and scientifically usefull to observe it with different masks in addition to potentially increasing the photometric characterization (better SNR in the redundant filters, when detected). This program should be carried out once all target acquisitions are optimized (TA centroiding algorithm, small angle maneuver repeatability). Having the dual SW/LW will allow in some case to also learn further about the data collected on the non-optimized channel.
Of course, this program also allows to refine and calibrate our simulation tools (pyNRC and PanCAKE) which are used to populate a full parameter space. The ultimate goal is to build an interactive "JIST like" tool for NIRCam Coronagraphs (which can then be expanded to MIRI Coronagraphs.

Program 4451, was executed in September 2023 (obs 1-8, see table 1 below) and February 2024 (obs 9-12).
As expected, it is extremely challenging to detect the 51 Eri b companion as shown on Figure 1. In fact, so far, in the GTO Program 1412 acquired with the LWB NARROW setup, b is marginally detected only through the F460M filter, one of the most sensitive for young giant exoplanets, a filter our program does not use. Our analysis of the data so far shows an evolution of the bad pixels as well as, still a small but sub-optimal target acquisition centering. In fact, Program 4451 obs 7-8 where used to optimize the TA special requirement offsets for Program 1412 to be successful.
Below are the values (dX / dY) by which we "missed" each occulter as determined with Jarron Leisering's methods (multi-fit with simulations grid representing all small grid dithers). In orange (also in Table 1) the bar observation we suggest to repeat in the CAL-NIRCAM-315.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This calibration program may change in response to system developments and the final Cycle 3 science program.

**OBSERVING DESCRIPTION**
**EXPOSURE SETUP:** We use readout patterns and groups/ints appropriate for a broad dynamic range of LMC stars, as demonstrated by Commissioning and Cycle 1 observations of the LMC Calibration field.

**DITHERS:** We include 2 INTRAMODULEBOX dithers for imaging and 7 INTRASCA 24" dithers for coronagraphy

**MOSAIC:** We include mosaics that place each SCA at the same location in the LMC

**FGS** is in parallel for all observations

**OFFSETS:** We include target offsets to help overlap all SCAS

**TIMING CONSTRAINTS:** We set a BETWEEN special requirement to observe this program in the first third of Cycle 2, about 6 months after the latest Cycle 1 observations.