---
id: 6646
proposal_type: "calibration"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: ""
program_title: "CAL-NRS-314  MSA Shorts Checking"
type: ""
---
# 6646 - CAL-NRS-314  MSA Shorts Checking
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6646
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                                              | Observing Template       | Science Target |
| :------------------------------------------------- | :----------------------- | :------------- |
| Exposures with current masks applied (control)     | NIRSpec Internal Lamp    | NONE           |
| Application of test mask 1                         | NIRSpec MSA Masking      | NONE           |
| Exposures with test mask 1 applied                 | NIRSpec Internal Lamp    | NONE           |
| Application of test mask 2                         | NIRSpec MSA Masking      | NONE           |
| Exposures with test mask 2 applied                 | NIRSpec Internal Lamp    | NONE           |
| Application of test mask 3                         | NIRSpec MSA Masking      | NONE           |
| Exposures with test mask 3 applied                 | NIRSpec Internal Lamp    | NONE           |
| Restoration of original ZPM                        | NIRSpec MSA Masking      | NONE           |
| Restoration of original TSM                        | NIRSpec MSA Masking      | NONE           |
| **Cycle 3 Shorts Re-checking: Test #1**            |                          |                |
| Apply test mask #1 (Q3 171-side line 169)          | NIRSpec MSA Masking      | NONE           |
| Exposure with test mask #1 applied                 | NIRSpec Internal Lamp    | NONE           |
| Restore nominal ZPM                                | NIRSpec MSA Masking      | NONE           |
| Exposures with nominal mask restored               | NIRSpec Internal Lamp    | NONE           |
| **Cycle 3 Shorts Re-checking: Test #2**            |                          |                |
| Apply test mask #2 (Q4 365-side lines 354 and 355) | NIRSpec MSA Masking      | NONE           |
| Exposure with test mask #2 applied                 | NIRSpec Internal Lamp    | NONE           |
| Restore nominal ZPM                                | NIRSpec MSA Masking      | NONE           |
| Exposures with nominal mask restored               | NIRSpec Internal Lamp    | NONE           |

## ABSTRACT

Program for re-checking previously masked shorts, as the expectation is that some (many?) could have been transient, and the shutters could be resurrected for science operations.
This calibration program may change in response to system developments and the final Cycle 3 science program.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

**OBJECTIVE:** The MSA control electronics (MCE) sporadically suffer electrical shorts, in which an unintended (and perhaps temporary) pathway bridges circuitry from a quadrant row or column (generically referred to as a line) to the substrate or another line. When a new short appears, the affected line should be identified and then masked, adding a full quadrant line to a dedicated mask in the MCE, effectively removing all the shutters in that line (171 or 365) from operations (this cannot be overruled by an MSA user pattern). This calibration program supports re-checking previously masked shorts, as the expectation is that some (many?) could have been transient, and the shutters could be resurrected for science operations.

**METHOD:** Re-checking of shorts follows the method described in the primary contingency OSD (CAL-NRS-316) program, with the temporary activation of one or more test mask(s) which removes the line(s) to be checked.

**JUSTIFICATION:** Short masking has, until now, been purely additive. However, transient shorts are a known phenomenon, raising the possibility that some previously masked shorts are no longer there. Short masking is currently responsible for the largest population of unusable shutters, and each masked row (dispersion direction) directly impacts multiplexing. All shorts since launch have been benign (no danger to the hardware) so there is no risk in re-checking them.

**PREVIOUS CALIBRATIONS:** A shorts re-checking program (PID 4469) was first introduced in Cycle 2 in anticipation of the development of SOC/OSS capability to apply test masks in the OP, which enables OSD and shorts re-checking without requiring cumbersome real-time commanding. This functionality was delivered in December 2023. As of March 2024, PID 4469 has not yet been used, as the operational procedures for generating and verifying test masks are still under development.

**TIMING CONSTRAINTS:** This program differs from the contingency ESD (CAL-NRS-315) and OSD (CAL-NRS-316) programs as it is not driven by unpredictable events but can be injected into the timeline when most efficient or most appropriate.

**DURATION (total hours):** An example shorts rechecking sequence with 3 test masks using the OP-driven mask handling, with a pair of diagnostic CHKBD3x3 exposures taken after each test mask activation, is estimated to take 1.2 hours.

**COMMENTS:** Only shorts appearing since launch will be considered initially for rechecking, with rows (dispersion direction) given priority as they have the highest impact on multiplexing. Note that because a visit using the masking template can only apply masks of one type (ZPM or TSM), the number of visits required to restore the original masks at the end of an execution of MSA Shorts Checking depends on the number of test mask types used.