---
id: 6650
proposal_type: "calibration"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: ""
program_title: "CAL-NRS-316  MSA Optical Shorts Detection (OSD)"
type: ""
---
# 6650 - CAL-NRS-316  MSA Optical Shorts Detection (OSD)
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6650
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                                       | Observing Template          | Science Target |
| :------------------------------------------ | :-------------------------- | :------------- |
| Exposures with current masks applied (control) | NIRSpec Internal Lamp       | NONE           |
| Application of test mask 1                  | NIRSpec MSA Masking         | NONE           |
| Exposures with test mask 1 applied          | NIRSpec Internal Lamp       | NONE           |
| Application of test mask 2                  | NIRSpec MSA Masking         | NONE           |
| Exposures with test mask 2 applied          | NIRSpec Internal Lamp       | NONE           |
| Application of test mask 3                  | NIRSpec MSA Masking         | NONE           |
| Exposures with test mask 3 applied          | NIRSpec Internal Lamp       | NONE           |
| Application of test mask 4                  | NIRSpec MSA Masking         | NONE           |
| Exposures with test mask 4 applied          | NIRSpec Internal Lamp       | NONE           |
| Restoration of original masks               | NIRSpec MSA Masking         | NONE           |
| Exposures with current masks applied (control) | NIRSpec Internal Lamp       | NONE           |
| Application of test mask 1                  | NIRSpec MSA Masking         | NONE           |
| Exposures with test mask 1 applied          | NIRSpec Internal Lamp       | NONE           |
| Application of test mask 2                  | NIRSpec MSA Masking         | NONE           |
| Exposures with test mask 2 applied          | NIRSpec Internal Lamp       | NONE           |
| Application of test mask 3                  | NIRSpec MSA Masking         | NONE           |
| Exposures with test mask 3 applied          | NIRSpec Internal Lamp       | NONE           |
| Application of test mask 4                  | NIRSpec MSA Masking         | NONE           |
| Exposures with test mask 4 applied          | NIRSpec Internal Lamp       | NONE           |
| Restoration of original masks               | NIRSpec MSA Masking         | NONE           |

---

## ABSTRACT

Contingency program for MSA OSD. When a new MSA short appears, if it is *not* detectable in telemetry, OSD diagnostic exposures should be executed in combination with test short masks in order to locate the short and mask the shutter row/column as necessary.

This calibration program may change in response to system developments and the final Cycle 3 science program.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

**OBJECTIVE:** The MSA control electronics (MCE) sporadically suffer electrical shorts, in which an unintended (and perhaps temporary) pathway bridges circuitry from a quadrant row or column (generically referred to as a line) to the substrate or another line. When a new short appears, the affected line should be identified and then masked, adding a full quadrant line to a dedicated mask in the MCE, effectively removing all the shutters in that line (171 or 365) from operations (this cannot be overruled by an MSA user pattern). If the short does not give rise to an elevation in quadrant current telemetry but is visible as thermal emission in the detector data, then the Optical Shorts Detection (OSD) should be executed: CAL-NRS-316. (If the short is seen in telemetry, ESD can be executed instead: CAL-NRS-315).

**METHOD:** OSD is a combination OP-driven and manual procedure in which detector data, together with knowledge of the configured MSA patterns, are analyzed to pinpoint the location of the short within the affected quadrant. Existing data generally narrows down the culprit line to a set of 3-6 possibilities (e.g. +/-1 shutter in both row/column axes). A set of test short masks are constructed, each including one of these possibilities. The onboard portion of OSD then systematically activates each test short mask in turn, for each executing a small number of dark exposures through special diagnostic MSA patterns (usually the two CHKBD3x3 patterns that ensure every line is probed in isolation). Once the exposure data is downlinked and available to the instrument team, analysis merely involves identifying the test mask for which neither CHKBD3x3 pattern causes the glow.

**JUSTIFICATION:** Shorts may cause unsafe currents on the MCE, contaminate the NIRSpec detector output with bright thermal emission and/or result in unpredictable shutter behavior that could degrade science data. Furthermore, bright shorts may even contaminate NIRCam detector output. Masking the location of known shorts is a reliable method to prevent the short reoccurring and mitigate symptoms.

**PREVIOUS CALIBRATIONS:** Within the Cycle 1 general shorts detection contingency program (PID 1490), OSD was executed once, leading to the masking of one short (spanning two lines). The Cycle 2 OSD contingency program (PID 4467) is expected to be executed once to locate a persistent low-level short for reference and documentation purposes.

**TIMING CONSTRAINTS:** Generally, we aim to execute OSD at the start of the next uplinked OP package, or at least before the first MSA visit of that package. However, the criticality of masking a new short is actually more complex, depending on its strength (is it dangerous to hardware, or how much of the detector is affected by the thermal emission?) and its location relative to upcoming patterns (a short will only manifest when there is a potential across the fault, so not all MSA patterns will “trigger” the glow).

**DURATION (total hours):** A pair of dark diagnostic CHKBD3x3 exposures take 999s (0.28 hours of charged time). An example OSD with 4 test masks and the OP-driven mask handling is estimated to take 1.5 hours, now that OP-driven mask handling scripts are available. Note that because a visit using the masking template can only apply masks of one type (ZPM or TSM), the number of visits required to restore the original masks at the end of an execution of OSD depends on the number of test mask types used.