---
id: 6659
proposal_type: "ddt"
cycle: 2
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 6.3
program_title: "Dust to Dust: Probing the Survival of Cold Dust, New Hot Dust Formation, and Mass-Loss History of the Nearest Type Ibn Supernova"
type: ""
---
# 6659 - Dust to Dust: Probing the Survival of Cold Dust, New Hot Dust Formation, and Mass-Loss History of the Nearest Type Ibn Supernova
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6659
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                       | Observing Template                 | Science Target                |
| :-------------------------- | :--------------------------------- | :---------------------------- |
| MRS Spectroscopy            | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) SN2023fyq                 |
| MRS Spectroscopy Background | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) SN2023fyq-spec-background |
| MIRI imaging in 3 reddest filters | MIRI Imaging                       | (3) SN2023fyq-imaging         |

---

## ABSTRACT

SN 2023fyq, the closest Type Ibn supernova (SN Ibn) to date, was discovered on April 17, 2023. It exhibited remarkable photometric behaviour, with an optical luminosity of approximately M_r ~ -12 mag for several months, consistent with some LBV outbursts and "SN impostors," before a rapid brightening and terminal explosion in mid-July. Serendipitous imaging by JWST on June 27, 2023, revealed strong dust emission coincident with the SN location, marking the first detection of "cold" (~120 K) dust before peak brightness.
Here, we propose JWST/MIR spectroscopy and imaging observations of SN 2023fyq approximately 300 days after the explosion. These observations will (i) directly observe the survival of circumstellar dust post-explosion, (ii) reveal new dust formation in a hydrogen-poor environment, and (iii) probe the progenitor star's mass-loss history, providing a reference point for future studies. SN 2023fyq offers a rare opportunity to investigate SNe Ibn, their progenitor systems, and their impact on dust in their environments. Given its distance and conducive conditions for dust formation, SN 2023fyq may remain visible in the MIR for a decade. However, early observations are crucial to understanding rapid dust growth and interpreting future observations.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We request 6.3 hrs of non-disruptive ToO time to obtain spectra and imaging of the closest Ibn SN~2023fyq. We will use and the MRS mode for spectroscopic observations, and imaging in the three reddest filters (F1800W, F2100W and F2500W) to probe the coolest dust. This program is rare and exciting opportunity to investigate SNe Ibn, their progenitor systems, dust properties and dust destruction/creation.