---
id: 6779
proposal_type: "ddt"
cycle: 3
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 12.7
program_title: "Pushing Boundaries: Unveiling the Most Distant Fast Radio Burst with JWST"
type: ""
---
# 6779 - Pushing Boundaries: Unveiling the Most Distant Fast Radio Burst with JWST
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6779
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                        | Observing Template       | Science Target                   |
|------------------------------|--------------------------|----------------------------------|
| Pre Imaging                  | NIRCam Imaging           | (1) FRBLocation                  |
| IFU spectroscopy of host     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (3) FRBLocation-NIRSpec-Pointing |

---

## ABSTRACT

In the past seven years, the localization of fast radio bursts (FRBs) to their host galaxies has transformed from a novelty into a central focus of transient astronomy. The scientific exploration of FRBs has progressed remarkably, investigating their mysterious origins and their utility as probes of the universe. Nearly 100 FRBs have been associated with host galaxies and their corresponding redshifts. Among these, FRB 20220611A is the most distant source, with a redshift of 1.016, and the highest dispersion measure of 1458 pc cm-3. This aligns with the theoretical correlation between dispersion measure due to free electrons in the cosmic web and redshift (i.e. the Macquart relation).

Our proposal seeks to push these boundaries further by securing the redshift of FRB 20240304B, which has an even higher dispersion measure of 2641 pc cm-3 and was recently discovered by the MeerKAT telescope. Deep imaging of its field has not revealed any galaxy counterpart to stringent magnitude limits, suggesting the presence of either a very faint galaxy at z < 1 or a typical FRB host galaxy at z > 3.

With the advanced observational capabilities of JWST, we aim to identify the host galaxy and measure the redshift of FRB 20240304B. This effort will address three key scientific goals: refining our understanding of FRB progenitors and host galaxies, advancing the use of FRBs as cosmological probes, and exploring the extreme environments of these enigmatic sources. Given the rapid rate of progress in FRB astrophysics, it is crucial to undertake this research now, lest we risk making a potentially great discovery in a timely fashion.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

In this proposal, we request the following observations with the JWST:

1. NIRCam Imaging: We propose to use the F200W and F322W2 bands to detect the host galaxy of a Fast Radio Burst (FRB), which has been localised to better than 1" using radio observations. The host galaxy has not been detected with ground-based imaging up to R < 26.8 (3) and J < 23.85 (3) AB magnitudes. Our proposed JWST observations with NIRCam will achieve a F200W band limit of ~28 AB, providing the necessary sensitivity to detect the host galaxy.

2. NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy: Upon localisation of the FRB host galaxy with NIRCam imaging, we request NIRSpec IFU observations in CLEAR/PRISM mode to determine its spectroscopic redshift. Our proposed observations will reach a 3-sigma line flux detection level of ~3.5×1019 erg/s/cm². Assuming the host galaxy is at z~3 (based on the dispersion measure), we anticipate detecting strong optical emission lines with the PRISM observations.

These observations will significantly enhance our understanding of the host galaxy's properties and its environment, contributing to the broader effort of characterising FRB sources.