---
id: 6793
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Yuichi Harikane"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "81.2/0.0"
program_title: "Spectroscopic Verification of Robust z>15 Galaxy Candidates Selected with Multiple Medium-Band Datasets"
type: "GO"
---
# 6793 - Spectroscopic Verification of Robust z>15 Galaxy Candidates Selected with Multiple Medium-Band Datasets
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6793
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label          | Observing Template                | Science Target          |
| :------------- | :-------------------------------- | :---------------------- |
| gds v1         | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy  | (1) catalog_gds         |
| gdn v1         | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy  | (2) catalog_gdn         |
| a2744all v1    | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy  | (3) catalog_a2744all    |

---

## ABSTRACT

JWST was designed to study the first galaxies, which are theoretically thought to have emerged at z~20-30. Since its first operation, the JWST has discovered a surprisingly large number of galaxies at z > 10, and its NIRSpec spectroscopy has successfully confirmed some of these galaxies up to z~14. Because z~14 is the upper limit for galaxies selected as F150W-dropouts, the next logical step is to target even higher redshift candidates, F200W-dropout galaxies at z~15-20. However, efforts to spectroscopically confirm F200W-dropouts have faced challenges. For example, NIRSpec observations showed that a previously claimed z~16 galaxy candidate was actually a foreground object at z=4.9 whose strong emission lines boosted fluxes in broad and medium-bands, making a SED similar to that of a z~16 galaxy.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose NIRSpec spectroscopy targeting 10 F200W-dropout galaxies at z~15-20, selected with multiple medium-band data and multi-epoch broadband data. We will use NIRSpec/PRISM to detect Lyman-alpha breaks of these candidates. We will use MOS to efficiently observe multiple targets in one pointing. Our exposure strategy follows previous successful observations.