---
id: 6796
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 6
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging  NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Seiji Fujimoto  Co-PIs: John Chisholm"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "60.7/0.0"
program_title: "Resolving Multi-phase Outflow/Inflow via Gas Dynamics and Chemical Abundance Distribution in a Sub-L* Dwarf Galaxy at z=6.1"
type: "GO"
---
# 6796 - Resolving Multi-phase Outflow/Inflow via Gas Dynamics and Chemical Abundance Distribution in a Sub-L* Dwarf Galaxy at z=6.1
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6796
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                      | Observing Template          | Science Target   |
| :------------------------- | :-------------------------- | :--------------- |
| NIRCam short exposure      | NIRCam Imaging              | (1) sub_clusters |
| G140H+G235H+G395H          | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (5) MSA_z6       |

## ABSTRACT

We propose deep high-resolution spectroscopy across ~0.7-5.3um with NIRSpec MSA, targeting remarkably bright (F150W=23.4mag), highly magnified (30-160x) multiple images of a sub-L* galaxy at z=6.072, RXCJ0600z6-ID3 and ID1,2 (~6"-long arc). Recent ALMA and MUSE observations have revealed significantly extended (~3"-6") and redshifted (~200-400 km/s) [CII]158um and Lya line structures around ID3, indicative of the presence of ongoing outflow/inflow. These two multiple images and associated extended nebular regions will be efficiently covered by stepped-MSA observations, providing the first spatially resolved views of a low-mass early galaxy, from the CGM, ISM, and individual star-cluster scales down to ~1-10pc. Our proposed deep spectroscopy across the rest-frame UV-optical range will enable the detection of key emission (e.g., HeII, CIII], NIII], [OII], [OIII], Ha) and absorption lines (e.g., O I, Si II, Si IV, CII, CIV) to achieve the following four major goals:
-Spatially resolve the multi-phase (ionized states/densities) gas outflow and inflow,
-Map out C/O, N/O, O/H distributions across the galaxy and study their connections with the stellar feedback and potential dilution of recent pristine gas inflow
-Search for uniquely high N/O regions inside the galaxy and investigate where and how the proto globular clusters are formed
-Verify metal-free ionization in the extended Lya-emitting regions
These are achieved only by the unprecedented spatial and spectral capabilities enabled by JWST and strongly lensed brightest objects like our targets at z>6, which guarantees giant leaps in our understanding of the feedback mechanisms and baryon cycles in early galaxies.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The key observables and scopes in each spec mode are summarized below:
1. G140H/F070LP (rest 990-1697 AA) : Emission) OIII], CIV, NIV, He II / Absorption) OI, Si II, Si IV, CII, CIV -> diffuse gas inflow/outflow, covering factor, electon density, ionization paramter
2. G140H/F100LP (rest 1430-2710 AA) : Emission) CIII], NIIII] -> C/O, N/O
3. G235H/F170LP (rest 2430-4570 AA) : Emission) [OII], MgII, Absorption) Mg II -> ionization parameter (with [OIII]), electron density
4. G395H/F290LP (rest 4143-7571 AA) : Emission) [OIII]4363, [OIII]5008,4960, Ha, Hb, He II -> O/H, Av, dense gas outflow
Both targets fall within the NIRSpec MSA FoV, and thus we employ the MSA stepping method (e.g., Barisic+24; see also #2123, #4291), instead of NIRSpec IFU.
We use 5 steps and 5 sub-grid dithers in each step. Using MSA planning tool with a specific PA angle which is available in our target coordinate, we confirm that the 5 step sufficiently covers both targets including the entire 6"-long arc in ID1,2 as well as ~3"-6" scale extended [CII]158um and Lya lines identified around ID3.
In addition to the ~3x better sensitivity in MSA than IFU, this extended structures makes our MSA-stepping method is > 5x more time efficient than IFU to achieve our request sensitivity per area.
For 1, we determine the request sensitivity to achieve S/N∼4-5 per pixel to enable the absorption line studies.
For 2 and 3, the key scopes are based on the emission lines, and we determine the request sensitivity to achieve the emission line detection at S/N >~4-5.
For 4, we determine the request sensitivity to achieve the outflowing broad [OIII] line detection at S/N>~4-5 after integrating over the line.
Note that our goal is to achieve the spatially-resolved measurements. Thus the request sensitivity is calculated based on a smaller aperture for the target which encloses ~10% of the total flux (i.e., we will achieve the above S/N >~4-5 detection experiment at least 10 spatially resolved elements in both ID1 and ID2,3)
Another note is that a recent paper found that this target lensing cluster has enormously extended high magnification areas from nearby sub clusters (Furtak+24).
While all the five multiple images have been spectroscopically confirmed and the latest lens model suggests the modest uncertainty (~20%) for our target system, despite its remarkably high magnifications (usually >100% for sources with mu>10), we also obtain short (~2hr; 5sigma~28mag in each filter) 2-point NIRCam exposure to fully cover the newly discovered regions to further refine the lens model and thus improve all our mesurement. We use the standard 8 NIRCam filters with F090W, F115W, F150W, F200W, F277W, F356W, F410M, F444W, which enables the robust cluster member galaxies and high-z lensed multiply imaged galaxies selection to refine the lens model.