---
id: 6797
proposal_type: "ddt"
cycle: 3
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 48.8
program_title: "Confirming the presence of a gas giant planet orbiting a nearby solar-type star"
type: ""
---
# 6797 - Confirming the presence of a gas giant planet orbiting a nearby solar-type star
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6797
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                                              | Observing Template              | Science Target                      |
| :------------------------------------------------- | :------------------------------ | :---------------------------------- |
| eps Mus Position A. us e offset star G9            | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging      | (1) NEW-EPS-MUS-OFFSET-G9           |
| eps Mus Position A B ACKGROUND                     | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging      | (2) NEW-EPS-MUS-BACKGROUND1         |
| Observe Eps Mus at position of AcenB for PSF reference | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging      | (1) NEW-EPS-MUS-OFFSET-G9           |
| Alpha Cen A F1550 Ro 111 Offset star GO            | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging      | (3) AlphaCen-Offset-StarG0          |
| Alpha Cen A F1550 - B ACKGROUND                    | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging      | (4) Final_Acen_Bkgnd1               |
| Alpha Cen A F1550 Ro 11 2 Offset star GO           | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging      | (3) AlphaCen-Offset-StarG0          |
| Alpha Cen A F1550 - BACKGROUND                     | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging      | (6) Final_Acen_Bkgnd2               |
| offset star for eps Mus. Offset G9. Obs 2          | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging      | (1) NEW-EPS-MUS-OFFSET-G9           |
| offset star for eps Mus. BACKGROUND                | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging      | (2) NEW-EPS-MUS-BACKGROUND1         |
| Observe Eps Mus at position of AcenB for PSF reference | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging      | (1) NEW-EPS-MUS-OFFSET-G9           |

---

## ABSTRACT

JWST Cycle 3 observations have detected a promising candidate gas giant planet orbiting a nearby solar-type star. Observed with the MIRI F1550C coronagraphic mask, the object is at a separation of ~1.5". Director's Discretionary Time is necessary to take advantage of the next window of observability in Cycle 3 between mid-February and early-May 2025 to provide definitive astrometric confirmation of the source as either a static background object or a gravitationally bound companion, to increase the S/N of the point source detection from ~7 to >10, and to deliver a critical new data point for orbit determination that will facilitate rapid community follow-up observations.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The proposed Director's Discretionary Time (DDT) program follows the previous JWST program in choosing the MIRI F1550C FQPM mask for a number of reasons: (1) minimum impact of wavefront drifts; (2) sensitivity to planets heated by the primary star to 200-300 K; (3) minimum contamination by background objects with Rayleigh-Jeans photospheres; and (4) sensitivity to exozodical emission at the ~5-10 Zodi level at 1-2 au. The detailed observing sequence proposed here is identical to the previously executed program: (1) a reference star is observed using a 9-point dither pattern at the start and end of the overall sequence to enable Reference Star Differential Imaging (RDI); (2) the primary star is observed at two telescope roll angles to provide angular diversity and reject residual speckles; and (3) the reference star is placed at the position of the binary companion star on the MIRI detector to assist in subtracting out its speckles at the position of the primary star, 7 arcsec away.

An observing window of +/- 1 week around March 15, 2025, places the point source detection in a favorable position with respect to the boundaries of the FQPM and the line of residuals from the binary companion star. It is this during this window that the change in solar aspect ratio between the observations of the reference and science stars is close to 0 degrees, minimizing the effect of thermal drift on wavefront error. The exact date of the observation will be set in conjunction with the STScI planning team(s) to enable: (1) a good selection of guide stars; (2) selection of suitably bright Gaia offset stars (at F1000W, for target acquisition) which are not compromised by diffraction artifacts from the primary and binary companion star at the chosen V3 angles; and (3) minimizing the change in solar angle between the observations of reference and science stars. Once the date and initial start time of the observational sequence is set, the detailed timing of the observations will be adjusted to take account of the motion of the primary star (~10 mas/day due to proper motion and parallax as seen from JWST's L2 orbit) so that the star can be accurately placed behind the FQPM. These steps were all successfully demonstrated in the previous JWST program.