---
id: 6801
proposal_type: "ddt"
cycle: 3
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 1.5
program_title: "Completing the control field observations of GO-1905"
type: ""
---
# 6801 - Completing the control field observations of GO-1905
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6801
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label          | Observing Template | Science Target      |
| :------------- | :----------------- | :------------------ |
| control field  | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) control field   |
| control field  | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) control field   |

---

## ABSTRACT

The accepted program GO-1905 has the main objective of calculating the Initial Mass Function (IMF) of the supermassive star cluster Westerlund 1. This would allow for the first time to test the universality of the IMF and the formation efficiency of the brown dwarfs in a truly starburst environment, which is importat to our capability of accounting for the unresolved stellar population of those galaxies experiencing intense epochs of star-formation, whose typical star-forming environment is in the form of supermassive clusters. In order to derive the mass distribution of the stellar population of Westerlund 1, it is mandatory to use a control field to account for the foreground/background stellar population along the line of sight contaminating the loci of the cluster population in the various color-magnitude diagrams. Unfortunately, among the chosen set of filters requested for the control field in GO-1905, only the observations in two filters (F115W and F277W) were performed, while F150W and F200W are deeper and with a more spatially uniform completeness. This does not allow us to obtain an accurate estimate of the very low-mass end of the IMF of the cluster. We thus request new observations of the control field chosen for GO-1905 in the remaining filters (F150W, F200W, F356W, and F444W) adopting the same observing strategy used for GO-1905. Despite the very small amount of requested time (1.5 hours), this observation will have an enormous impact on our capability of deriving an accurate estimate of the IMF of Westerlund 1

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

At the age of 5 Myr and with a total mass of some 10^5 solar masses, Westerlund 1 is the most massive young star cluster known in the Milky Way, and the closest example to the Sun of supermassive star clusters. Despite being an extreme and rare star forming environment in our Galaxy today, supermassive star clusters are common in the early Universe, in starburst and merging galaxies, and in epochs of intense star formation activity of the Milky Way. Westerlund 1 is therefore the best targets for extending our knowledge of star formation and early stellar evolution to the most energetic star-forming environment. This has motivated the MIRI and NIRCam observations of Westerlund 1 (GO-1905) as part of the EWOCS (Extended Westerlund 1 and 2 Open Clusters Survey) project.

The observations approved as GO-1905, now public, are designed in order to derive the Initial Mass Function (IMF) of Westerlund 1 into the brown dwarf (BD) regime. This is a topic of primary importance for both our understanding of star formation in different environments and for our capability of accounting for the unresolved low-mass stellar population in distant galaxies.

The study of the IMF in Westerlund 1 relies on the capability of accounting for the foreground/background stellar population contaminating the locus populated by cluster members in NIRCam color-color and color-magnitude diagrams. For such reason, PID-1905 also includes observations of a control field located at RA: 16:47:43.0 Dec: -46:03:47.0. The observations of the control field were performed with a similar strategy of those adopted for Westerlund 1, adopting the same set of wide filters. However, only observations with the F115W and F277W were done. This negatively impact the possibility capability of calculating the IMF of Westerlund 1 for the following reasons: 1) PID-1905 observations at F150W and F200W are deeper than those at F115W and F277W, being the only ones really useful to reach the brown dwarfs of the cluster; 2) 50% completeness at F150W and F200W is more uniform than in F115W and F277W across the field, 3) given the cluster age, some of the stellar population may have protoplanetary discs, whose emission is more prominent at longer wavelengths, requiring a multiband approach to estimate the IMF.

We thus request a short (1.5 hours) DDT NIRCam observation of the control field with the remaining set of filters, namely F150W, F200W, F356W, and F444W. We point it out that despite the very short investment of observing time, such observation would have a profound impact for our capability of deriving the IMF of Westerlund 1, allowing us to fulfill one of the two main scientific objectives of GO-1905. We are aware of the fact that this request may be atypical with respect to the DDT criteria. However, the DDT avenue is the only way to take full advantage of this unique data set in reasonable time, and to fulfill the objective of obtaining the very low mass end of the IMF in the superstar cluster Westerlund 1.