---
id: 6803
proposal_type: "ddt"
cycle: 3
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 2.9
program_title: "NIR+MIR Spectroscopy of the Nearby Broad Line Type Ic SN 2024abup: r-process, Dust and Explosion Physics"
type: ""
---
# 6803 - NIR+MIR Spectroscopy of the Nearby Broad Line Type Ic SN 2024abup: r-process, Dust and Explosion Physics
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6803
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label             | Observing Template                   | Science Target     |
| :---------------- | :----------------------------------- | :----------------- |
| LRS-Slit          | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy     | (1) SN2024abup     |
| NIR               | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy      | (1) SN2024abup     |

---

## ABSTRACT

We request NIRSpec+MIRI/LRS (~1-14 microns; 1.9 hours total) spectroscopic observations of SN 2024abup (D=23 Mpc), a very nearby broad-line type Ic supernova (Ic-BL) in order to search for signatures of heavy element, r-process nucleosynthesis and to obtain the first MIR spectrum of a type Ic-BL supernova with JWST. Binary neutron star mergers are a major source of the heavy elements. However, stellar abundance measurements and models indicate that massive star explosions (e.g. collapsars/type Ic-BL) may also contribute. Recent observations of two long gamma-ray bursts (GRBs), which often also have accompanying SN Ic-BL, have shown infrared emission consistent with the r-process, but whether these are an extension of the binary neutron star merger population or not is unclear. The discovery of SN 2024abup at 23 Mpc offers an opportunity to obtain NIR+MIR spectroscopy of a broad-lined SN Ic without an accompanying GRB for the first time with JWST. This observation allows for a search for r-process elements at ~50d after explosion, when models predict such a signature. Additionally, these observations will also be sensitive to molecular line formation (indicative of dust formation) as well as the geometry and ionization state of the ejecta. All of these are critical for informing explosion models and have never been probed for a SN Ic-BL before.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

While neutron star mergers are thought to be the primary producers of r-process elements, the rarity of such events suggest the need for additional r-process formation pathways, the most promising of which is SN Ic-BL. The proposed JWST observations will directly test this hypothesis for the first time. We request 2.9 hours of DDT for an observation of a nearby broadline Ic SN 2024abup (D=23 Mpc). We will observe it ~50 days, after the discovery when the r-process elment has the biggest impact, with NIRSecp + MIRI for a spectra spanning from 1-14 microns. We will using MIRI LRS with resolution of (R=100) which is sufficient for supernova with broad features. This setup will provide us a wavelength coverage of ~5 to 14 microns. For the NIRSpec observation, we will use G140M+G235M+G395M to get the coverage from ~1 to 5 microns at medium resolution (R~1000). The combination of NIRSpec and MIRI will produce the first ever complete infrared spectral coverage of a SN Ic-BL and will give unprecedented coverage of r-process element signatures. This is a non-disruptive target-of-opportunity request.