---
id: 6809
proposal_type: "ddt"
cycle: 3
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 9.6
program_title: "Observing the birth of a black hole in M31"
type: ""
---
# 6809 - Observing the birth of a black hole in M31
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6809
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                      | Observing Template              | Science Target      |
| :------------------------- | :------------------------------ | :------------------ |
| M31-2014-DS1/LRS           | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) M31-2014-DS1    |
| M31-2014-DS1 imagin g      | MIRI Imaging                    | (1) M31-2014-DS1    |
| M31-2014-DS1               | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (1) M31-2014-DS1    |

## ABSTRACT

Stellar mass black holes (BHs) form a corner stone of astrophysics; yet there remains no observational consensus on how they form. The majority are believed to form from the collapse of massive stellar cores that fail to explode as a supernova, and instead implode into a BH. However, identifying individual disappearing stars at extragalactic distances remains a daunting task. Using archival data from the NEOWISE survey, we have identified a faint mid-infrared (MIR) brightening of a massive supergiant in the Andromeda galaxy, which subsequently has faded dramatically in optical and bolometric luminosity. Modeling the exquisitely rich archival dataset, we identify a failed supernova as the most likely explanation. Here, we propose JWST DDT observations in support of a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to study a failed SN in the nearest Milky Way-like galaxy, that will i) reveal the luminosity of the surviving remnant, thereby confirming a terminal event caused by the collapse of the core, ii) measure the energy and mass ejected by the neutrino shock and iii) constrain the growth of the putative BH via direct detection of the fallback material. Capitalizing on recent ground-based observations that confirmed the disappearance, timely observations in Cycle 3 are necessary to catch the fading remnant dominated by IR emission, as it is expected to decay as a power-law in time (optimistically; it may be fainter if the accretion becomes radiatively inefficient approaching 10% of Eddington luminosity). These observations will set the benchmark for future follow-up for many decades, with the potential to become a foundation of our understanding of stellar mass black hole formation.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The goal of the propsal is to obtain NIRSpec Fixed-Slit spectroscopy and MIRI LRS spectroscopy + longer wavelength image of a point source in the direction of M31. We propose to use a combination of MIRI/LRS spectroscopy and longer wavelength imaging in the F1500W, F1800W, F2100W and F2550W filters since it sufficies our goals to measure the dust continuum precisely. Target acquisition will be carried out directly on the source. For NIRSpec, we propose to use the G140H/F100LP, G235H/F170LP and G395H/F290LP gratings to get uniform coverage between $1.0\,\mu$m and $5.0\,\mu$m at $R \approx 2700$ for accurate comparisons against stellar photospheric models. Target acquistion will be carried out using an offset star since the science target is very faint and in a crowded field where direct acquistion may fail.