---
id: 6811
proposal_type: "ddt"
cycle: 3
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 13.4
program_title: "So Close, Yet So Faint: NIR+MIR Spectroscopy of the Nearest SN Iax 2024vjm"
type: ""
---
# 6811 - So Close, Yet So Faint: NIR+MIR Spectroscopy of the Nearest SN Iax 2024vjm
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6811
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                        | Observing Template                | Science Target |
| :--------------------------- | :-------------------------------- | :------------- |
| MRS                          | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) SN2024VJM  |
| NIR G395M+G235M+G140M        | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy   | (1) SN2024VJM  |

## ABSTRACT

SN 2024vjm was discovered in NGC 6744 at 7 Mpc just over a week ago, becoming the most nearby type Iax supernova (SN Iax) to-date. Originally classified as a peculiar nova, SN 2024vjm is also one of the faintest SNe Iax observed, providing an unprecedented and indispensible opportunity for detailed study of the characteristics and explosion mechanisms of the weakest thermonuclear SNe. JWST has been revolutionizing the study of thermonuclear SNe, opening a new window to unique infrared signatures and connecting different parts of the thermonuclear supernova zoo to different progenitor and explosion scenarios. Thought to arise from pure deflagrations of Chandrasekhar-mass white dwarfs, SNe Iax are a faint and diverse SN Ia subclass spanning an enormous range of luminosities and characterized by narrow spectral lines due to low velocities. However, current models struggle to reproduce the lowest luminosity SNe Iax. Here we request 12.9 hrs of DDT to obtain medium resolution NIR+MIR spectra of SN 2024vjm before the JWST observability window closes on 08-October-2024. These observations will allow us to directly test current theories and determine whether extremely low luminosity SNe Iax have distinct astrophysical origins.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We request 12.9 hrs of DDT to observe the extremely nearby (7 Mpc) SN Iax 2024vjm in a single visit approximately two week post maximum-light. For this observation, we will use the NIRSpec G140M, G295M, and G395M gratings and MIRI MRS to obtain spectroscopic coverage from 1 to 28 microns at medium resolution (R~1000), which will enable us to clearly resolve the narrow lines that SNe Iax exhibit. The MRS observations will cover many important MIR emission lines of Ar, Co, Ni, and Ne; while the NIR data will show many narrow photospheric absorption and emission lines that are either not accessible (due to telluric absorption) or very difficult to observe with high S/N (due to the intrinsically faint nature of these objects) from the ground. This NIR + MIR spectrum will allow us to test models for the astrophysical origins of the weakest thermonuclear explosions.