---
id: 6821
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS  NIRSpec/FS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Tomasz Kaminski"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "9.2/0.0"
program_title: "Dust, gas, and ice formed before and after stellar mergers"
type: "GO"
---
# 6821 - Dust, gas, and ice formed before and after stellar mergers
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6821
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                                   | Observing Template                  | Science Target          |
| :-------------------------------------- | :---------------------------------- | :---------------------- |
| V4332 Sgr MIRI MRS                      | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) V-V4332-SGR         |
| V1309 Sco MIRI MRS                      | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) V-V1309-SCO         |
| BLG360 MIRI MRS                         | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (7) EWS-2002-BLG-360    |
| V4332 Sgr MIRI MRS background           | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) V4332SGR-BACKGROUND |
| V1309 Sco MIRI MRS background           | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (6) V1309SCO-BACKGROUND |
| BLG360 MIRI MRS background              | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (9) BLG360-BACKGROUND   |
| V4332 at NIRspec                        | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy     | (2) V4332-SGR-NIRSPEC   |
| V1309 at NIRspec                        | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy     | (5) V1309SCO-NIRSPEC    |
| BLG360 at NIRspec                       | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy     | (8) BLG360-NIRSPEC      |

---

## ABSTRACT

Some noncompact binary stars end their lives in a cataclysmic merger, giving rise to transients known as red novae. Six Galactic and over a dozen extragalactic objects of this type are known. Red novae expose the elusive physical mechanisms that lead to stellar mergers (incl. the common envelope phase), providing crucial input for modern theoretical models of binary evolution, directly affecting stellar population studies. A red nova outburst can also be considered a birth of a new star with peculiar properties and surrounded by a complex circumstellar medium which is bright in the IR. We propose to use MIRI and NIRSpec spectral mode to characterize better the complex vicinity in three red nova remnants whose mergers involved giants: V1309 Sco (Nova 2008), V4332 Sgr (Nova 1994) and BLG360 (outburst 2002). We request spectra within a combined range 2.9-28 um which will give us access to multiple tracers of different phases within the remnants. Silicate and alumina dust features will be used to study dusty disks and dusty ejecta surrounding the coalesced star. Ice mantles, mainly of H2O, will be analyzed to investigate whether they might originated from mass loss preceding the merger. Multiple atomic and ro-vibrational lines (e.g. of CO, H2, OH, FeII, and H2O) will be used to probe shocks in the remnants, which either are a signature of material falling back on the star or manifest interaction of merger ejecta with an older outflow. These JWST observations will provide the most comprehensive view on remnants of stars which merged 1-3 decades ago, providing a benchmark for the study of extragalactic red nova analogs which are expected to be abundant in the Rubin-LSST survey.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This project consists of spectral observations with MIRI and NIRSpec for three infrared sources, BLG-360, V4332 Sgr, and V1309 Sco. All sources are located a few degrees from the Galactic Center. These are relatively bright sources, and for both instruments we took special care to not saturate the spectroscopic detectors. The sources are too bright for acquisition (or direct MIR imaging). Some saturation may occur in our MIRI imaging made during simultaneous imaging observations for IFUs background scans.

The MIRI observations will be conducted in the MRS mode using all spectral channels and sub-bands for all three sources. Setup parameters are: subarray = FULL, Integration per Exposure =1 or 3, and the Groups per integration (GIP) are set equal to the number required for the desired SN. As some of the sources may be marginally spatially extended, a strategy of IFU Nod-Off-Scene is adopted and in the APT as standard 4-point dithering pattern set. We request parallel imaging, but it is of low priority. Following recommendation, each science target observation with MRS is followed by nearby background observations at the same instrument setup but with 2-point dither instead of 4-point dither used for science.

The NIRSpec observations will be obtained with S200A1 in the fixed slit mode and with G395H/F290LP grating/filter. Since the targets are relatively bright, detector readout NRSRAPID is selected. A 3-point dither pattern combined with subpixel BOTH offset pattern will be used in all NIRSpec observations, to mitigate detector artifacts and cosmic rays. This will result in 12 total exposures. The detector gap at 3.7 um is small enough so it will not influence the analysis of the much broader spectral features. Each integration will be taken with 3-7 groups.