---
id: 6827
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging  NIRCam/WFSS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Anna-Christina Eilers"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "110.9/0.0"
program_title: "From Dawn till Noon: Chronicling the Cosmic History of Black Hole Growth"
type: "GO"
---
# 6827 - From Dawn till Noon: Chronicling the Cosmic History of Black Hole Growth
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6827
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                      | Observing Template              | Science Target             |
| :------------------------- | :------------------------------ | :------------------------- |
| J0100+2802                 | MIRI Imaging                    | (1) J0100+2802             |
| J0148+0600                 | MIRI Imaging                    | (2) J0148+0600             |
| J1030+0524                 | MIRI Imaging                    | (3) J1030+0524             |
| J1120+0641                 | MIRI Imaging                    | (4) J1120+0641             |
| J1148+5251                 | MIRI Imaging                    | (5) J1148+5251             |
| J0100+2802                 | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (1) J0100+2802             |
| J0148+0600                 | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (2) J0148+0600             |
| J1030+0524                 | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (3) J1030+0524             |
| J1120+0641                 | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (4) J1120+0641             |
| J1148+5251                 | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (5) J1148+5251             |

---

## ABSTRACT

The formation and growth of supermassive black holes (SMBHs) in the early universe represents one of the major unsolved mysteries of modern astronomy. While in the latter half of cosmic history a self-consistent narrative of SMBH growth has emerged, the presence of luminous quasars powered by billion solar mass black holes at Cosmic Dawn poses significant challenges to our understanding. To grow the observed masses of SMBHs within short amounts of cosmic time, it is necessary to modify our standard picture and invoke either very rapid "super-Eddington" accretion, or alternatively, highly dust-obscured black hole growth phases. With this proposal we aim to trace the formation and growth of SMBHs across billions of years of cosmic history and connect the yet-to-be-understood mysteries at Cosmic Dawn to the decade-old and seemingly well-understood results at Cosmic Noon.
JWST's unique new observing capabilities allow us to address some of the major open questions in astronomy and motivate our proposal to study both luminous, unobscured AGN, as well as heavily dust-enshrouded, obscured objects and their respective environments. Using NIRCam in wide-field slitless mode as well as deep MIRI imaging in five quasar fields we propose to observe >80 (>200) unobscured (obscured) AGN and quasars across a wide range of halo mass, black hole mass, stellar mass, luminosity and redshift, in order to determine (#1) their dark matter halo masses and duty cycles, (#2) their obscuration fraction, (#3) the initial seed black hole masses, (#4) the merger rate, and (#5) their accretion rates to paint the first coherent picture of SMBH growth across cosmic time - from Cosmic Dawn to Cosmic Noon.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We target five high-redshift quasar fields with NIRCam WFSS in F444W, and simultaneous SW imaging in F140M and F200W, as well as MIRI imaging in F1280W and F1800W. The quasar fields were previously observed with NIRCam WFSS in F356W and represent some of the deepest extragalactic fields in terms of available NIRCam imaging and unprecedented depth in WFSS observations.

All fields will be targeted with a 1x2 mosaic in NIRCam WFSS in F444W. The tiles will overlap such that they cover the central 2.2'x2.4' around the quasar. Combined with the previous F356W WFSS observations, this data will enable a continuous wavelength coverage for the majority of objects in the field between 3.135-4.982 microns. The spectral coverage will enable us to identify AGN by means of the broad Balmer or Paschen lines between 0.7<z<9.2. The wide spectral range covers at least two emission lines for most galaxies in the field, which serves two purposes: Firstly, multiple lines enables a secure spectroscopic redshift determination, and secondly, it is crucial to differentiate between broadening of lines due to accreting SMBHs or galactic outflows.

Following on the successful strategy of previous teams, we choose to use only GrismR, with two position angles (PAs) rotated by 180 degrees to avoid source confusion.

We split the exposure time into 5 groups per integration and choose 12 dithers (INTRAMODULEX dither pattern, three primary dither positions, four subpixel dithers) to mitigate the influence of cosmic rays. The total NIRCam observing time per quasar field is 14.2ks, 12.4ks of which are taken in WFSS mode.

Deep MIRI observations will be obtained in two filters (F1280W and F1800W) in a 2x2 mosaic. We use the recommended 4-Point-Sets dither pattern, which we repeat twice. The exposures are split into 50 groups/integration and 4 integrations/exposure, resulting in a total of 4500s per filter and mosaic tile. The total exposure time is 35.5ks per quasar field.