---
id: 6838
proposal_type: "ddt"
cycle: 3
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 7.5
program_title: "Boom and Dust: Near- and Mid-IR Observations of the Nearest Type Icn Supernova Dust Factor"
type: ""
---
# 6838 - Boom and Dust: Near- and Mid-IR Observations of the Nearest Type Icn Supernova Dust Factor
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6838
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label              | Observing Template                  | Science Target   |
| :----------------- | :---------------------------------- | :--------------- |
| NIRSpec Gratings   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy            | (1) SN2023xgo    |
| MIRI LRS           | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy    | (1) SN2023xgo    |
| MIRI Imaging       | MIRI Imaging                        | (1) SN2023xgo    |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose to obtain NIRSpec, MIRI LRS and MIRI imaging observations of the nearest (D~60 Mpc) Type Icn Supernova (SN Icn) 2023xgo yet discovered. SNe Icn are an exceedingly rare and only recently discovered class of extremely stripped SNe hallmarked by interaction between the SN shock and dense, C/O-rich, H/He-poor circumstellar medium (CSM). Hydrogen/helium-interacting SNe (IIn/Ibn) observed by Spitzer and JWST have significantly more dust than non-interacting SNe. SNe Icn, with their dense and comparatively dense C/O-rich CSM should be the ideal sites for SN dust. NIR observations of SN 2023xgo at 72 days after explosion show strong dust emission, requiring either extremely rapid dust formation or large amounts of pre-existing dust in the CSM. Here we request 7.5 total hours to obtain NIR-MIR observations of SN 2023xgo around 400 days past explosion. Observations as soon as possible, and particularly at this phase are critical to anchor dust grain growth models, and to compare to MIR observations of SNe Ibn - which only exist at this phase. These observations will robustly characterize the mass, composition, and origin of the dust in SN 2023xgo. These data will provide insights into the yet unknown SN Icn progenitors. Additionally, this test of dust production and growth in the ideal cosmic dust factory will constrain dust growth models, which, in turn, will determine if SNe alone can balance the early universe dust budget.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We request 4.0/7.4 hrs of non-disruptive ToO DD time to obtain spectra and imaging of the closest SN Icn, SN 2023xgo (60 Mpc). We will use NIRSpec IFU + G295M and G395M gratings, MIRI LRS, and MIRI imaging in F1280W, F1500W, F1800W, and F2100W to obtain a full NIR-MIR (~2-23 micron) SED. These 3 spectroscopic and imaging components scientifically complement one another, and will enable the best constraints on the nature of the dust in SN 2023xgo -- including the composition, and emission from cool (~200 K) dust. The observations will execute at ~400 days post-explosion, which allows us to compare to previous observations of similar interacting SNe. The observations DO NOT need to be executed within a single visit, however we request that they be executed within 15 days of one another because the source is transient and evolving. This program is the first opportunity to obtain IR spectroscopic observations of this rare class of SN at late-times, and may be the only opportunity during the prime mission lifetime of JWST.