---
id: 6852
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Steven Goldman"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "30.2/0.0"
program_title: "Calibrating Stellar Evolutionary Models using M31 Clusters"
type: "GO"
---
# 6852 - Calibrating Stellar Evolutionary Models using M31 Clusters
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6852
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template               | Science Target           |
| :---- | :------------------------------- | :----------------------- |
|       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) M31-CLUSTER-2710     |
|       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) M31-CLUSTER-1282     |
|       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) M31-CLUSTER-445      |
|       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) M31-CLUSTER-881      |
|       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (5) M31-CLUSTER-1969     |
|       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (6) BACKGROUND-FIELD     |

## ABSTRACT

Accurate stellar evolutionary models are critical for estimating properties in high-redshift galaxies like mass, metallicity, and star formation history. These models have been calibrated using cluster AGB stars within the Magellanic Clouds; however, it is now known that using these clusters as benchmarks introduces systematic errors in modelling, due to these clusters' unique star formation histories. To finally obtain a robust sample of AGB stars with measured ages and metallicities, we will target the clusters within M31 with the MRS on MIRI. M31 avoids the biases in the Magellanic Clouds, while also probing new metallicity regimes, more typical of massive galaxies. AGB candidates have already been identified in these clusters which have measured ages and metallicities. However, their chemical and dust composition and mass-loss rate are unknown. These are critical for constraining the two leading uncertainties in models, the mass loss and third dredge up. In addition to constraining the derived properties of high-redshift galaxies, these results will allow us to study the effect of metallicity and age (main sequence turn off mass) on AGB dust properties, their lifetimes and evolution, and their still unexplained wind-driving and mass-loss mechanisms. Each of these constraints have large implications for stellar and chemical evolutionary models, dust budget calculations, and cosmological simulations.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We are targeting five clusters in M31 with the MIRI IFU. We will simultaneously observe all channels in each wavelength range using a 4-point dither pattern (optimized for channel 1). We will use the SLOWR1 readout pattern with 50 groups to limit data excess and avoid saturation. Due to the crowded field of our targets, we will also need to observe a background field for removing the sky+telescope. We will observe one undithered frame in the outskirts of M31 with the same readout ramp length as our targets. We will also do simultaneous MIRI imaging in the F560W, F770W, and F1000W filters for each field.