---
id: 6865
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Leigh Fletcher"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "21.2/0.0"
program_title: "Jupiter's Stripes: Testing the Canonical View of Banded Circulation Patterns on Giant Planets"
type: "GO"
---
# 6865 - Jupiter's Stripes: Testing the Canonical View of Banded Circulation Patterns on Giant Planets
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6865
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label   | Observing Template              | Science Target      |
| :------ | :------------------------------ | :------------------ |
| LAT N6  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) JUP LAT N6      |
| LAT N5  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) JUP LAT N5      |
| LAT N4  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) JUP LAT N4      |
| LAT N3  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) JUP LAT N3      |
| LAT N2  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (5) JUP LAT N2      |
| LAT N1  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (6) JUP LAT N1      |
| LAT EQ  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (7) JUP LAT EQ      |
| LAT S1  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (8) JUP LAT S1      |
| LAT S2  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (9) JUP LAT S2      |
| LAT S3  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (10) JUP LAT S3     |
| LAT S4  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (11) JUP LAT S4     |
| LAT S5  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (12) JUP LAT S5     |
| LAT S6  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (13) JUP LAT S6     |

---

## ABSTRACT

Jupiter's banded structure has long been associated with atmospheric circulation patterns on the scale of the zonal wind jets, with a canonical picture of rising motions in cool, cloudy zones; and sinking in warm, cloud-free belts. However, direct evidence of vertical motions within these bands is scarce, particularly away from the equatorial region. Neither temperatures, nor clouds, are robust observables for vertical motions. The spatial distribution of gases, such as ammonia, phosphine, arsine, water and hydrocarbons, can serve as excellent tracers provided the sources and sinks are known. These are only accessible via mid-infrared spectroscopy with MIRI/MRS. Space-based mapping by the Cassini and Galileo missions lacked the spectral and spatial resolution to map these species on the scale of the bands. Juno microwave observations probe the correct scales, but a degeneracy between temperature and ammonia thwarts attempts to understand the vertical motions without a unambiguous measurement of temperature, which can be provided by MIRI/MRS. We will also characterize the present state of Jupiter's stratospheric circulation, from the equatorial oscillation to the cold polar vortices, to provide contemporary temperature context at all latitudes for radio occultation experiments on the Juno spacecraft, scheduled during Cycle 4. Both our tropospheric and stratospheric objectives require a central-meridian scan of Jupiter, using 13 separate pointings with MRS from pole to pole, to determine whether there is truly evidence of upwelling/downwelling on the scale of Jupiter's bands to set the paradigm for banded circulation on rapidly-rotating giant planets.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Jupiter's banded atmosphere will be investigated by moving the MIRI/MRS fields of view from the north to south across Jupiter as it rotates. Although JWST cannot produce a full zonal average without an enormous time request, we can achieve our scientific goals by sampling all the belts and zones, from the equator, to the mid-latitudes, and up to the polar domains. Jupiter will rotate approximately twice during these observations.
Starting from the north pole, we require 13 separate pointings with MIRI/MRS. Each footprint uses a 4-point dither optimised for extended sources, in order to remove artefacts such as striping and spaxel gain variations. All four channels and three gratings are required to construct a full spectrum, although we expect saturation in Channel 4. We use 5 groups (the minimum allowable) to reduce saturation, and intend to use desaturation techniques in Channel 3 near the strongest hydrocarbon features. Given Jupiter's high mid-IR brightness, no background frames are required.
As the required longitude is unconstrained for much of the observation, we use the torus definition to ensure pointing at the central-meridian longitude. The only exceptions are near the north pole (where we must avoid auroral contamination near 170W) and the southern tropics (where we must avoid the Great Red Spot). All other longitudes have the homogeneity required to achieve our goals and sample "background" belts and zones.
As the GRS moves in time, the final longitudes and timings will be provided before execution. Although reasonable approximations for the GRS location can be provided more than a year in advance, subtle accelerations and decelerations are known to occur, and the GRS location for Cycle 4 would be best determined in 2025.