---
id: 6866
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Aneurin Evans  Co-PIs: Chick Woodward"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "9.2/0.0"
program_title: "Sakurai's Object - mineralogy and morphology"
type: "GO"
---
# 6866 - Sakurai's Object - mineralogy and morphology
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6866
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                           | Observing Template                 | Science Target           |
| :------------------------------ | :--------------------------------- | :----------------------- |
| V4334 Sgr NIRSpec IF U mosaic   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy           | (3) V4334SGR_IFU         |
| BKGR-MRS-CH123-V 4334Sgr        | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) BKGR-V4334SGR        |
| MRS-CH123-V4334Sgr              | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) V4334SGR             |

## ABSTRACT

Intermediate mass (0.8-8 Msun) stars, after evolving away from the Asymptotic Giant Branch, become planetary nebulae and eventually hot young white dwarfs. During this evolution, they undergo a series of Helium shell flashes (thermal pulses). In some cases, a very late Helium shell flash (a very late thermal pulse - VLTP) may occur that raises the star from the embers of a cooling white dwarf back to the original luminous giant stage. The evolution is reversed, and the star - Phoenix-like - rises from the ashes and is born-again. The known cases of this dramatic regeneration are extremely few, Sakurai's object (SO) being the prime example. Further, how a star evolves after being born-again is completely uncharted territory. There is therefore a compelling need to document it. SO's present evolution is dominated by its dust shell, and so its study is centered around the mid-IR. JWST observations are critical to address our goals, which are to (i) determine the early morphology of the material ejected following the VLTP, (ii) determine the mineralogy of the ejecta, and (iii) test and constrain models of VLTP evolution using JWST 3d spectral-spatial cubes.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

SO is at ecliptic latitude +5.7degrees; its coordinates are accurately known. The MAZ safe zone gives observing windows 8 Aug - 24 Sept 2025, 14 Mar - 1 May and 8 Aug - 24 Sept 2026. We have no reason to deviate from these dates.

For NIRSpec IFU, a 4pt on-source dither is invoked to provide robustness against dead pixels, and cosmic ray hits for the pipeline reduction. Based on implementation recommendations from the assigned NIRSpec support instrument scientist, T. Boeker, we have adjusted small parts of the APT strategy by adjusting the NIRSpec IFU to give a 2*2 mosaic. A 2x2 tile is executed to trace potential extended features. We require G140H/F100LP, G235H/F100W, and G395H/F290LP to obtain the spectrum in the range 1-5microns, with s/n increasing from 30 (short wavelengths) to 900 (long wavelengths). This is required to capture absorption features (solid, molecular) and emission features.

MRS observations use channels 1,2,3 A,B,C to attain s/n >~ 200 in the continuum. The MRS The background position is executed first followed by the on-source position following recommendations from the program assigned instruments scientist (IS). Background 4-pt dither pattern optimized for BACKGROUND. On-source 4-pt dither pattern optimized for EXTENDED source. Simulatenous imaging is purposely not performed.

Revisions still permits the entirety of the program to fit into the TAC awarded hours, and does not impact achieving the science goals outlined in the proposal.