---
id: 6876
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Wendy Freedman  Co-PIs: Barry Madore"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "14.7/0.0"
program_title: "An Stellar (JAGB/Carbon star) Distance to the Coma Cluster: Establishing Four New Determinations of the Hubble Constant"
type: "GO"
---
# 6876 - An Stellar (JAGB/Carbon star) Distance to the Coma Cluster: Establishing Four New Determinations of the Hubble Constant
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6876
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label     | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :-------- | :----------------- | :------------- |
| NGC-4911  | NIRCam Imaging     | (2) NGC-4911   |
| NGC-4921  | NIRCam Imaging     | (5) NGC-4921   |
| M-106     | NIRCam Imaging     | (3) M-106      |

---

## ABSTRACT

The Coma cluster, one of the richest nearby clusters of galaxies known, provides us with the unique opportunity to resolve the debate over the much-disputed value of the Hubble constant. And JWST is uniquely positioned to rapidly determine a precise and accurate value for the distance to the Coma using JAGB/carbon stars as standard candles. Knowing Coma's true distance immediately allows us to calculate four new measurements the Hubble constant, totally independent of the current Cepheid distance scale: (1) The recessional velocity of Coma simply divided by its distance gives a one-step value of Ho at a distance that is on the threshold of the pure Hubble flow. (2) A distance to Coma will allow us to calibrate the absolute magnitudes of 12 historical Type Ia SNe in Coma which will, on their own, allow us to determine Ho in the far field flow mapped by over 300 distant SNe Ia. (3) Combining the 12 supernovae in Coma with the 8 JAGB calibrated SNe in nearby galaxies will more than double the number of JAGB-based calibrators giving an even more robust estimate of Ho. (4) A Coma distance will give the first stellar-based, zero-point calibration of the Fundamental Plane method which has over 4000 tracers of Ho in the Hubble flow out to a redshift of 20,000 km/s.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Using ultra-wide filters (F150W2 & F322W2) on NIRCam it will be possible to complete this determination of Ho with 2 (four-hour) exposures containing 5 Coma galaxies, a factor of 1.7 faster than standard wide filters. An absolute zero-point calibration (requiring less than 300 sec) will be made using N4258, which has a geometric distance. For a very modest amount of time the results will be of very high impact.

This program has three pointings, two in the Coma cluster (one centered on NGC 4911 and another centered on NGC 4921) and the third centered on the photometric zero-point anchor galaxy NGC 4258. Using NIRCam, the two ultra-wide filters (F150W2 in the short-wavelength camera and F322W2 in the beam-split, long-wavelength camera) will allow us to detect and measure the carbon-star luminosity function in single visits to each of the galaxies.

The readout pattern will be DEEP8, with 6 GROUPS per INTEGRATION, 4 INTEGRATIONS per EXPOSURE, and a Total of 4 Dithers, for a total on-target exposure time of 18,681 sec.