---
id: 6915
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Coronagraphy  NIRCam/Coronagraphy"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: William Balmer"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "47.3/0.0"
program_title: "Direct Detection and Characterization of a Nearby Temperate Giant Planet"
type: "GO"
---
# 6915 - Direct Detection and Characterization of a Nearby Temperate Giant Planet
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6915
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
1.  **Labels, Observing Templates, and Science Targets**

    | Folder          | Label             | Observing Template          | Science Target      |
    | :-------------- | :---------------- | :-------------------------- | :------------------ |
    | **MIRI F1065C** | HD 222 BKG        | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging  | (2) HD-222237-BKG   |
    |                 | HD 222 FQPM       | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging  | (1) HD-222237       |
    |                 | PSF-REF FQPM      | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging  | (5) HD-22886        |
    |                 | PSF-REF BKG       | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging  | (6) HD-22886-BKG    |
    | **MIRI F1140C** | HD 222 BKG        | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging  | (2) HD-222237-BKG   |
    |                 | HD 222 FQPM       | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging  | (1) HD-222237       |
    |                 | PSF-REF FQPM      | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging  | (3) HD-218288       |
    |                 | PSF-REF BKG       | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging  | (4) HD-218288-BKG   |
    | **MIRI F1550C** | HD 222 BKG        | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging  | (2) HD-222237-BKG   |
    |                 | HD 222 FQPM       | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging  | (1) HD-222237       |
    |                 | PSF-REF FQPM      | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging  | (5) HD-22886        |
    |                 | PSF-REF BKG       | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging  | (6) HD-22886-BKG    |
    | **NIRCam F444W**|                   | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging| (1) HD-222237       |
    |                 |                   | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging| (1) HD-222237       |
    |                 |                   | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging| (3) HD-218288       |

## ABSTRACT

    We propose to image HD 222237 b, a nearby, temperate, eccentric giant planet prime for characterization by JWST. HD 222237 b, observable only with JWST, is the next rung on the "effective temperature ladder" that will connect known directly imaged planets (like eps Indi b) and Y-type brown dwarfs (like W0359 or W0855) to Jupiter and Saturn. It provides a rare opportunity to study the atmospheric state of giant planets in the asymptotic phase of their evolution and benchmark evolutionary models, and will be a critical point of comparison between directly imaged planets and mature, temperate transiting exoplanets. This program will target the potentially coldest-imaged planet with the NIRCam and MIRI coronagraphs. These observations will constrain key atmospheric model uncertainties, like the strength of water-ice cloud opacity, the abundance of ammonia, and the strength of disequilibrium chemistry in the planet's atmosphere. This program is designed to efficiently detect the planet at high confidence, photometrically characterize the atmosphere, and refine the planet's sky-projected orbit ahead of Cycle 5; doing so will allow the community to estimate the feasibility of follow-up spectroscopy on the fastest timescale.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

    In order to constrain 1) the cloud strength, 2) the ammonia abundance, and 3) the disequilibrium chemistry of an exoplanet with Teff <250 K for the first time, we will observe HD 222237 b with JWST /NIRCam and MIRI coronagraphy. These observations will each require corresponding PSF reference star observations that will use the 9-point dither patterns to increase the diversity of the PSF library used for starlight subtraction with principle component analysis. Due to the presence of stray light “glowsticks” in the MIRI FQPMs, the MIRI observations will require the observation of dedicated background observations.

    We optimized exposure patterns and times using pancake and pynre for MIRI and NIRCam respectively to achieve 5-10% photometry in the MIRI filters, and a 3-5 sigma detection in the NIRCAM LW filter.

    We selected HD 218288 as a reference star for both instruments, it is nearby, brighter than HD 222237 b by 1.5 mags, and of a similar spectral type (K3III vs K3V).

    Based on the preliminary orbit fit, the MIRI FQPM observations have the aperture PA restriction 281-301 deg, to ensure the planet does not fall behind the edges of the coronagraph regardless of the degenerate PA angle (either 63 or 153 deg). Once candidate sources close in are found, this restriction can be revised to increase schedulability.

    We will execute the F1140C observations (where the planet should be secondmost bright) first in order to determine the positions of candiate sources and whether our orbital predictions are correct. If we detect the planet in F1140C, we expect to be able to see the planet easily in both F1065C and F1550C; if we cannot detect the planet at >5 sigma in F1140C, we will allocate the F1065C time to the F1550C filter, in anticipation of only recovering the planet in the longest filter. This failstate is not favored by our modeling, but is conceivable.

    Then, the F1065C and F1550C observations will be executed during the target's next observability window, to observe common proper motion (~0.5- 1 MIRI pixels) and measure the MIR color of any candidates. This minimizes the total number of telescope slews while preserving our multi epoch observing strategy. The NIRCam observations, without aperture PA requirements (only relative PA restrictions for ADI) will be allowed to float to increase schedulability.