---
id: 6927
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Matthew Ashby"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "14.4/0.0"
program_title: "Groundbreaking Constraints on the Galactic Dust Extinction Law in the High-Opacity Regime"
type: "GO"
---
# 6927 - Groundbreaking Constraints on the Galactic Dust Extinction Law in the High-Opacity Regime
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6927
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                          | Observing Template              | Science Target                      |
| :----------------------------- | :------------------------------ | :---------------------------------- |
| MSA Plan 11 for Pointing 1     | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (15) MPT_sourcelist.v11             |
| MSA Plan 11 for Pointing 2     | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (16) MPT_sourcelist.v11.Pointing2   |
| MSA Plan 11 for Pointing 3     | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (17) MPT_sourcelist.v11.Pointing3   |
| MSA Plan 11 for Pointing 4     | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (18) MPT_sourcelist.v11.Pointing4   |

## ABSTRACT

Given its fundamental importance for so many areas of astrophysics, the Galactic dust extinction curve has attracted a great deal of attention, and is already well-characterized in environments where the extinction is relatively low (of order Av<5 mag). Unfortunately, the extinction curve remains poorly constrained in the high-opacity regime critical for understanding grain growth, the ice content of dense molecular clouds, molecular cloud structure, the 3D structure of the Galaxy, and many other phenomena. To help remedy this situation, we seek NIRSpec MSA spectra prioritizing highly obscured stars in a well-known infrared dark cloud, the Brick. Cycle 1 NIRCam imaging of the Brick has revealed thousands of highly obscured stars in and around this extremely dense object at Av's up to 50 mag, ideal for characterizing the high-opacity dust extinction curve with groundbreaking precision. As our fits to hundreds of simulated attenuated stellar spectra demonstrate, our proposed MSA spectra of over 200 stars will successfully constrain the 1 to 5 micron spectral dust extinction curve over a wide range of dust extinctions. With an abundance of targets, our proposed observations will provide transformative constraints on the spectroscopic extinction curve as a function of Av, an outcome with wide applications, and one not possible from any other facility. NIRSpec's high spectral sensitivity and resolving power are needed for this work: it cannot be done with broadband photometry.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose NIRSpec MSA spectra covering the full NIRSpec bandpass from 1-5 um, targeting obscured stars in the Brick, an extremely dense infrared dark cloud located near the Galactic center. The program will yield groundbreaking measurements of the Galactic dust extinction law at extreme opacities in a unique environment only accessible to JWST.

The observations are designed to cover the entire spatial extent of the Brick, so as to sample all existing environments (all available dust opacities). For that, four pointings of the MSA footprint must be tiled to cover the chip gaps. At each pointing, we seek to obtain dithered spectra in three grating settings: G140M/F100LP, G235M/F270LP, and G395M/F290LP, to obtain the desired spectral coverage. This is necessary to break the degeneracies between intrinsic stellar colors and reddening imposed by the dust within the Brick. We use medium spectral resolution for efficiency. The exposure time is set by the need to have adequate SNR per NIRSpec spectral channel for our faintest targets.

The Brick will be available during two ~50-day windows in 2025 Aug/Sep and 2026 Mar-May, at position angles of roughly 230 and 50 degrees, respectively. Only the 2025 Aug/Sep window meets the micrometeoroid avoidance requirement, so we adopt 230 degrees. This serendipitously aligns the NIRSpec MSA diagonal axis with the Brick's long axis.

The astrometry of our targets is better than 0.03", based on multiband Cycle 1 NIRCam imaging (PID 2221).

We use the nod-in-slitlet strategy for background subtraction and to improve the spectral SNR. This will yield clean spectra because our targets are selected not to have near neighbors.

The four MSA pointings yield 53, 53, 53, and 54 spectra of unique targets, or 213 spectra in total.