---
id: 6940
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Sarah Betti"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "13.7/0.0"
program_title: "Determining the Origin of Water Ice in the Beta Pictoris Debris Disk"
type: "GO"
---
# 6940 - Determining the Origin of Water Ice in the Beta Pictoris Debris Disk
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6940
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                                | Observing Template      | Science Target                      |
| :----------------------------------- | :---------------------- | :---------------------------------- |
| beta Pic Debris Disk - NIRSpec IFU   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | -BET-PIC                            |
| alf Pic PSF Calibrator - NIRSpec IFU | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (2) -ALF-PIC-PSF-CALIBRATOR         |

## ABSTRACT

    We propose to obtain deep 1.88-5.2 micron NIRSpec IFU medium resolution spectroscopy to map and spectrally resolve the 3 micron water and 4 micron CO2 ices in the beta Pictoris debris disk. Recent PRISM observations revealed the presence of submicron ices across the whole disk for the first time in a debris disk, including a hint of a significant ice population at the outer edge of beta Pic dust clump. This discovery changed our understanding of debris disk chemisty as these grains were not expected to survive, and opened up new questions on the role of giant collisions in producing the observed ice grains. Therefore, characterizing their origin and composition is of vital importance to our understanding of late stage planet formation and the transport of ices in disks. Medium resolution (R~1000) IFU spectroscopy provides the only means to a) spectrally map down to 20 au separation, where PRISM mode saturates, but also where a giant collision could have produced the observed dust clump, and b) spectrally resolve the CO2 ice features, allowing us to model the molecular components of the ice, a key means to determine the collisional bodies required to produce the ice. By mapping the whole dust clump, we can uncover the origin, chemical composition, and thermal history of the ices in this disk.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

    **Overall Strategy**
    We propose to obtain high contrast medium resolution integral field unit spectroscopy of the beta Pictoris debris disk with the G235M/G395M gratings with NIRSpec. We aim to extract the scattered light emission radially throughout the disks in order to a) measure the 3 micron water ice feature down to 20 au, b) spectrally resolve the 12CO2 and 13CO2 ice features. These observations allow us to determine the origin of ices within beta Pic, determine the grain mixtures, and piece together a picture for ice and gas production in debris disks.
    Beta Pic will be observed utilizing a 1x4 mosaic over the extended disk with a small 9-point small dithering cycle. We will also observe a PSF reference stars using identical configurations, in order to perform PSF subtraction to remove stellar residuals.

    **Exposure Times, Group, and Iterations**
    Exposure times for the science target are calculated using the JWST ETC in order to achieve a S/N>100 to statistically detect the faint 13CO2 with a depth of 1%. The maximum number of groups is selected to minimize noise with the number of integrations corresponding to the dither positions.
    This S/N should provide sufficient sensitity to also search for faint signatures of CO2 ice as well (down to optical depths of 1%).

    **PA constraints**
    The PSF wings dominate the signal where they fall on the detector and any astronomical signal is not recoverable. Therefore, we set strict PA constraints (127-143 deg) so that the major axis of the beta Pic disk lies between two of the PSF wings.

    **Non-interruptable Scheduling**
    In order to minimize changes in the telescope thermal noise, detector characteristics, we require each PSF reference star to be observed with its corresponding science target in the non-interruptable mode.