---
id: 6954
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/FS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Callum Donnan  Co-PIs: Derek McLeod"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "5.9/0.0"
program_title: "Spectroscopic confirmation of the most robust z=15 galaxy candidate"
type: "GO"
---
# 6954 - Spectroscopic confirmation of the most robust z=15 galaxy candidate
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6954
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template            | Science Target |
|-------|-------------------------------|----------------|
|       | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (1) 3003658    |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose an efficient NIRSpec PRISM observation of the single most robust and luminous z=15 galaxy candidate selected from all available JWST NIRCam imaging - PANORAMIC-z15. Given that this is the only robust z=15 galaxy candidate detected in all of the current NIRCam imaging, spectroscopic verification of the redshift is vital for our understanding of the nature of star formation at cosmic dawn.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will observe the luminous z=15 candidate PANORAMIC-z15 using the NIRSPec/PRISM mode. We will use the fixed slit S200A1 to minimise the exposure time required due to the superior sensitivity compared to the MSA. We will use the NRSIRS2 readout mode to keep the data volume within the required limit. WATA will be used for the target acquisition. For each exposure we will have 3 integrations with 22 groups. There will be 3 dithers leading to to a total exposure time of 14574.30 s (4.1 hours). Once overheads are accounted for there is a total charged time of 5.9 hours. This efficient 6-hour program will not only definitively confirm the redshift of this object via (at least) the spectroscopic detection of the Lyman break, but, crucially, it will also detect rest-frame UV emission lines. Specifically, our exposure time of 4 hours should enable the detection of CIII] 1908 given the typical minimum equivalent widths in similar sources at extreme redshifts but may also allow the detection of NIV 1488, CIV 1549, HeII 1640, NIII 1750 and potentially even Lyman-alpha. This will place crucial constraints on the nature of star formation and/or AGN activity only 270 Myr after the Big Bang. By spectroscopically confirming a galaxy at z=15, we will not only set a new redshift record but also reveal the nature of star formation earlier than ever measured before.