---
id: 6958
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging  NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Francesco Valentino  Co-PIs: Francesca Rizzo"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "4.6/0.0"
program_title: "Past, present, and future of a dynamically cold disk in an extreme environment"
type: "GO"
---
# 6958 - Past, present, and future of a dynamically cold disk in an extreme environment
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6958
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
    | Label           | Observing Template | Science Target     |
    | :-------------- | :----------------- | :----------------- |
    | NIRCam Imaging  | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) HyLIRG-Imaging |
    | MIRI imaging    | MIRI Imaging       | (1) HyLIRG-Imaging |

## ABSTRACT

    We propose a small NIRCam+MIRI pilot program to image an orderly rotating, dynamically cold disk, harbored by an extreme hyper-luminous IR galaxy in an overdensity at z=2.41. The existence of disks in such strongly starbursting galaxies, revealed by deep high-resolution ALMA observations of the cold molecular gas, is hard to reconcile with the standard formation via gas-rich mergers, which should leave behind highly chaotic disk structures.
    With the requested JWST images, we will accurately reconstruct stellar mass and SFR maps, modeling the effects of dust, emission lines, and AGN contamination. This will allow us to test the past and present stability of the disk with a three-pronged novel strategy. (i) We will search for a stellar bar, a long-lived structure that would automatically imply long-term past stability on timescales of >1 Gyr. The gas distribution and kinematics already support this possibility; (ii) We will assess the present stability in 3D (in the disk plane and vertically), superseeding simplified approaches based on the Toomre Q-parameter. This will reveal unstable regions prone to fragmentation and clump formation, potentially forming a bulge and contributing to the suppression of the star formation; (iii) We will test this last hypothesis by correlating maps of clumpy star formation with the 3D disk stability maps. As a bonus, we will map the stellar mass and SFR in 4 confirmed Hy- and ULIRGs in the surrounding overdensity and detect tens of reliable photometric candidate members.
    This pilot will test the soundness of our strategy, which could be successfully applied to large statistical samples covered by JWST and ultradeep ALMA observations.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

    We ask for NIRCam and MIRI imaging of an orderly rotating, dynamically cold disk hosted by a hyper-luminous infrared galaxy at z=2.41 and its surrounding environment.
    Short integrations with 6 NIRCam filters (~19 mins F090W/F150W/F200W/F277W/F356W/F444W) and 4 MIRI bands (~14-18 min with F770W/F1130W/F1500W/F1800W) will allow us to detect the emission of point-like sources on the main-sequence at z=2.41 down to Mstar~1e9.5Msun and SFR~5-10 Msun/yr. We implement standard 4-point dither pattern to sample the PSF and mitigate the effect of bad pixels and cosmic rays. The chosen pattern will fill the small gaps among NIRCam detectors while optimizing for the area with homogeneous coverage. The core of the overdensity with known IR bright members fit in a single quadrant.