---
id: 6978
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Joost Wardenier  Co-PIs: Antoine Darveau Bernier and Mark Hammond"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "16.7/0.0"
program_title: "The dayside of the coolest ultra-hot Jupiter, KELT-20b, resolved with eclipse mapping"
type: "GO"
---
# 6978 - The dayside of the coolest ultra-hot Jupiter, KELT-20b, resolved with eclipse mapping
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6978
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label            | Observing Template                  | Science Target |
| :--------------- | :---------------------------------- | :------------- |
| KELT-20b eclipse | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) KELT-20    |

## ABSTRACT

With the advent of JWST, one-dimensional atmospheric models of hot gas giants are no longer sufficient to capture the complexity of their spectra. 3D models are now required to correctly interpret the atmospheric signals of these planets. However, these models need a new kind of observable to be properly benchmarked: the planet's 3D temperature structure. Eclipse mapping is the only technique that can directly resolve the dayside temperature structure of hot gas giants, both in latitude and longitude.

We propose to create the most precise 3D temperature map of an exoplanet to date. Our selected target, the ultra-hot Jupiter (UHJ) KELT-20b, offers the highest expected signal-to-noise ratio for eclipse mapping and exhibits prominent water and CO emission features, owing to a strong dayside thermal inversion. Thanks to its sensitivity to these two molecules, NIRSpec-BOTS/G395H will allow us to probe different pressures and measure the temperature structure horizontally and vertically. Eclipse mapping provides crucial measurements to understand how the energy from the host star is redistributed globally across the atmosphere of UHJs. Moreover, simulations predict a large range of temperatures on KELT-20b's dayside (1000-3500K), including the limit where molecules such as water and H2 will dissociate (around 2200K). This will cause important temperature heterogeneities on the dayside that will be measured by our eclipse map, allowing us to put constraints on these phenomena. From the disk integrated emission spectrum, we will be able to constrain the C/O ratio and improve the refractory-to-volatiles ratios, which are tracers of giant planet formation/migration mechanisms.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We plan to observe the eclipse of KELT-20b and obtain a partial phase curve centered around its peak. The partial phase curve will allow to accurately measure the hotspot offset expected in KELT-20b's dayside and will lift some degeneracies inherent to the eclipse mapping method. This will result in a better latitudinal and longitudinal accuracy in the map of the planet's dayside. We will use NIRSpec/G395H with the Bright Object Time Series (BOTS) mode.

We request a total of 11 hours (charged time 16 hours) to observe the secondary eclipse of KELT-20b, including the partial phase curve before eclipse, in a single continuous sequence (i.e. one exposure) with NIRSPEC/G395H. The time duration corresponds to a total of 9000 integrations of 5 groups. The selected number of group is a conservative choice (one group less than the maximum number of groups before saturation returned by the ETC = 6 groups) to make sure that there are no systematic related to partial saturation. There should be at least 6h30min of observations before the eclipse (phase at least 0.42) to target the expected peak of the phase curve and measure the disk-integrated dayside emission spectrum of KELT-20b. This also gives a window of 1h30min to start the observation.

We are not able to use the target acquisition (WATA) on KELT-20b since it is too bright, with 6 pixels fully saturated according to ETC, and no suitable offset stars are available for this system. However, the 1.6"x1.6" square aperture is large enough to minimize the effect of FGS pointing errors, with in-flight precision around 0.1". This will slightly increase the uncertainty in the wavelength solution. However, this will not affect the primary science objective of the proposal, as we will use 2-3 wavelength bins for eclipse mapping.