---
id: 6987
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS  NIRSpec/FS  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Patrick Morris"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "36.4/0.0"
program_title: "Unveiling Eta Carinae's Eruptive Mass-Loss History with JWST Spectroscopy"
type: "GO"
---
# 6987 - Unveiling Eta Carinae's Eruptive Mass-Loss History with JWST Spectroscopy
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6987
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                             | Observing Template                      | Science Target             |
| :-------------------------------- | :-------------------------------------- | :------------------------- |
| MIRI MRS centered on EtaCar-E     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy     | (9) ETA-CAR-MIRI-E         |
| MIRI MRS centered on EtaCar-W     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy     | (10) ETA-CAR-MIRI-W        |
| MIRI MRS Background               | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy     | (4) ETACAR-BACK            |
| MIRI MRS ODF E5                   | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy     | (5) ODF-E5                 |
| NIRSPEC IFU ODF E5                | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy                | (5) ODF-E5                 |
| NIRSPEC IFU ODF COND              | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy                | (6) ODF-S-COND             |
| NIRSPEC IFU BACK                  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy                | (4) ETACAR-BACK            |
| NIRSpecIFU SE mosaic              | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy                | (11) SE-LOBE-NIRSpec-Mosaic |
| NIRSpecIFU NW mosaic              | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy                | (12) NW-LOBE-NIRSpec-mosaic |
| FS Mosaic center/butterfly        | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy         | (1) -ETA-CAR               |

---

## ABSTRACT

The Luminous Blue Variable Eta Carinae is a colliding-wind binary, the most massive stellar multiple within 3 kpc, and a strong candidate for a merger in a born-triple system. Its spectacular bipolar 10" x 20" Homunculus Nebula, formed in the "Great Eruption" in the 1840s, is postulated to have been ejected in a super-Eddington wind during the spiral-in phase of two merging stars. The nitrogen-rich nebula contains at least 0.4 Msun of dust, with a diverse chemistry reflecting the CNO-processed abundance pattern of the erupting star's surface. However, the mass and chemical distribution of the dust between the polar lobes and a warm wind-carved equatorial torus -- tracers of the system's mass-loss history are highly uncertain since the only spectrum revealing the unique dust bands is spatially unresolved. We propose to decisively fill this crucial gap in our knowledge with JWST spectral maps of the nebula and two positions in the nearby debris field containing N-rich material ejected centuries before the Great Eruption, possibly during an unstable triple orbit phase involving mass-stripping encounters. The dust bands and nebular lines provide essential diagnostics of the distribution of dust species, grain properties, and associated excitation conditions, and will constrain the dynamical models of the system with the mass budget over the its eruptive history, and provide a detailed understanding of the photon- and shock-driven gas excitation. The science unique to JWST's capabilities will offer insights into key processes like common-envelope evolution, a critical yet poorly-understood phase in the formation of gravitational wave sources.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to perform NIRSpec and MIRI MRS IFU spectroscopy on the dusty 10" x 20" Homunculus Nebula and nearby debris fields surrounding the Luminous Blue Variable and candidate merger-in-a-triple eta Carinae. The observations on the Homunculus are designed as mosaics providing maximum wavelength coverage over the full nebula to separate the various anticipated dust bands, nebular and recombination lines in the complex geometry of the disrupted equatorial torus, the equatorial skirt, and bipolar lobes to characteristic clumping scales of ~0.2". Two positions target pre-Great Eruption material in the surrounding debris field for spectroscopy with a single pointing of the IFUs.

The NIRSpec G140H/F100LP, G235H/170LP, and G395H/290LP disperser-filter combinations are used to cover emission from hot dust, nebular and reflected recombination H and He, fine structure lines, and ro-vibrational H2 which will trace photon- and shock-excited material in the Homunculus and X-ray bright ring of the outer ejecta. The plentiful spectral lines will prevent IFU wavelength gaps from interfering with our science goals. High spectral resolution will also moderate throughput from the bright central region of the Homunculus, avoiding saturation according to our senstivitiy estimates with ETC 4.0. MSA leak-cals are included with the NIRSpec IFU science observations.

The MIRI MRS observations employ all 4 channels to similarly cover warm and cooler dust species across the nebula, H and He lines, and key fine-structure lines to trace where molecule and dust formation is inhibited. Group numbers are set to 6, minimizing persistence and saturation risks based on ETC 4.0 sensitivity calculations, ground-based imaging between 0.658 and 19.5 microns, and SED shape indicated by spatially-unresolved ISO spectroscopy of the Homunculus.