---
id: 6991
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Coronagraphy"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Bin Ren"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "8.7/0.0"
program_title: "Testing planet-disk interaction theory by imaging a unique spiral-arm-driving and gap-opening protoplanet"
type: "GO"
---
# 6991 - Testing planet-disk interaction theory by imaging a unique spiral-arm-driving and gap-opening protoplanet
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=6991
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                | Observing Template           | Science Target       |
| :------------------- | :--------------------------- | :------------------- |
| V1247ORI-ROLL1       | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (1) V-V1247-Ori      |
| V1247ORI-ROLL2       | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (1) V-V1247-Ori      |
| V1247ORI-PSF-REF     | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (2) HD-37443         |

## ABSTRACT

At the early stages of planet formation, giant planets interact with and shape their surrounding protoplanetary disks. While we have identified nearly two dozen spiral arm systems in protoplanetary disks, none of the planets that shape these spiral structures are confirmed. To locate these hidden planets, ground-based high-contrast imagers are observing these spiral systems at two distinct epochs over 5 or more years. With these observations, we constrain spiral motion, identify spiral formation mechanism, and pinpoint the orbits for these spiral-arm-driving giant planets. With the recent validation of the theory using the co-motion between a spiral and a stellar companion, we can now start hunting these spiral arm drivers in the planetary regime. A two-epoch observational study of the V1247 Ori spiral motion prescribed a hidden giant planet at 118 au or 0.29". The orbit aligns with an ALMA dust continuum gap, and there is a near-infrared high-contrast imaging candidate from Keck/NIRC2 almost exactly matching hydrodynamical simulation location. These four pieces of evidence complementarily support the theory that a giant planet is driving the scattered-light spirals and creating a millimeter gap. Situated at 0.29" ± 0.05", this hidden giant planet is the best target for NIRCam high-contrast imaging, thanks to unprecedented NIRCam sensitivity and contrast that are otherwise unachievable from the ground. Once confirmed, this joint-evidence approach will establish a new way of planet imaging, and deepen our understanding of planet formation. If not, this poses serious challenges to planet-disk interaction theories and protoplanet evolutionary models for further refinement.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

For V1247 Ori, we request DEEP8, ngroup=20, nint=5 for 2067s of exposure at F410M/F210M and nint=6 for 2481s of exposure at F460M/F210M. We repeat this at two roll angles spaced by 10 degrees. To removed the stellar signals and speckles from the V1247 Ori observations, we have selected HD 37443 as the reference stardue to its close proximity (< 10 deg from the star), magnitude, and color. For the reference star, we repeat the same exposure pattern, but using the 5-point small grid dither to ensure pointing repeatability, which is essential to increase constrast from post-processing. To image the hidden companion located at ~0.3 arcsec, as well as ring-sheperding planet exteior to ~0.5 arcsec, the filters are F410M/F460M and F210M for the long and short wavelength channels. In this way, we can obtain both short wavelength channel and long wavelength channels simultaneously within one exposure, and use the F210M images to remove disk contamination (which is already significantly small in the F410M/F460M wavelengths). Upon simulations with the NIRCam ETC, we do not further increase the exposure time, since the constrast does not improve between 0.3 arcsec and 0.8 arcsec with this optimal observational setup.