---
id: 7014
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Antonello Calabro'"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "62.8/0.0"
program_title: "Searching for Population III stars around massive interacting galaxies in the reionization epoch"
type: "GO"
---
# 7014 - Searching for Population III stars around massive interacting galaxies in the reionization epoch
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7014
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template    | Science Target |
| :---- | :-------------------- | :------------- |
| 1     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) ID_1       |
| 2     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (2) ID_2       |
| 3     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (3) ID_3       |
| 4     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (4) ID 4_5     |
| 5     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (5) ID_6       |
| 6     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (6) ID_7       |
| 7     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (7) ID_8       |
| 8     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (8) ID_9       |

---

## ABSTRACT

Recently, the efforts to uncover traces of the elusive Population III stars have intensified, with several studies hinting at their detection in early galaxies. Yet, definitive observational evidence of this stellar population is still lacking. We propose a new, physically motivated approach, complementary to existing surveys, to search for Pop III stars by observing with NIRSpec-IFU (at medium resolution) the environment of 9 massive and interacting galaxies between redshift 7 and 9.5, which recent simulations suggest may host rich Pop III-forming environments in their surroundigs with high probability. Pop III stars will be clearly identified by the presence of bright HeII 1640 line and Balmer lines, and faint or absent metal lines, supported by robust photoionization model predictions. Additionally, these observations will provide new insights into the star formation and interstellar medium properties of merging galaxies at z > 7, improving our understanding of galactic interactions during this early epoch.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This program involves NIRSpec-IFU observations of 9 galaxies in the redshift range between 7 and 9.4. The objective is to search for Population III stellar clumps around massive galaxies, maximizing the probability of finding them, according to recent simulations. This will be achieved by analysing their rest-frame UV and optical lines, through which we can clearly distinguish between photoionization from metal poor Pop II stars and metal free stars. We thus request to combine observations with the medium resolution gratings G140M and G395M.

The galaxies lie in the EGS field and around the cluster Abell 2744. All of them have exquisite, multiband NIRCam images, and were confirmed spectroscopically through previous NIRSpec Multi-object spectroscopic (MOS) observations by the CEERS and GLASS Early Release Science (ERS) programs. Given that all the galaxies are located in well-studied fields with stars boasting precise astrometry, we have not included target acquisition. Any small inaccuracies in acquisition are inconsequential due to the 3"x3" NIRSpec-IFS Field of View. For maximizing the observations schedulability, we have not set any constraints on the PA, except for one galaxy. Additionally, our dither strategy is designed to minimize issues related to MSA leakage, rendering a leakcal exposure unnecessary.

Since we want to reach the same depth in SFR = 1.5 Msun/yr for the clumps, we set slightly different exposure times depending on redshift to reach a similar S/N on Hbeta and HeII 1640 (> 5 in all cases). We employ a small cycling pattern with 9-point dithers (on average) to improve spatial and spectral sampling, as suggested in the JWST documentation. The small cycling also does not significantly impact the field of view with complete exposure time (~ 2.8"x2.8"). We end with a total exposure time of 49 hours (on source) to observe the entire sample with both gratings.

No background exposures are necessary since each observation comprises numerous spaxels that are uncontaminated by the emission from the central source or neighboring sources. We will make use of spaxels within the IFS Field of View that lack line emission to execute background subtraction.