---
id: 7024
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Ilaria Pascucci"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "74.0/0.0"
program_title: "From Accretion to Dispersal: Understanding Disk Evolution Around the Most Common Stars"
type: "GO"
---
# 7024 - From Accretion to Dispersal: Understanding Disk Evolution Around the Most Common Stars
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7024
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template       | Science Target               |
| :---- | :----------------------- | :--------------------------- |
| 1     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) Sz-84                    |
| 2     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (2) THA-15-24                |
| 3     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (3) THA-15-26                |
| 4     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (4) THA-15-29                |
| 5     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (5) THA-15-30                |
| 6     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (6) THA-15-34                |
| 7     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (7) 2MASS-J16090141-3925119 |
| 8     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (8) UCAC3-96-205744          |
| 9     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (9) Sz-131                   |
| 10    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (10) 2MASS-J16070854-3914075 |
| 11    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (11) 2MASS-J16102955-3922144 |
| 12    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (12) 2MASS-J16134410-3736462 |
| 13    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (13) Ass-Cha-T-1-8           |
| 14    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (14) BYB-43                  |

---

## ABSTRACT

Recent theoretical studies propose that protoplanetary disk evolution is determined by magnetically-driven (MHD) disk winds, which enable accretion, and photoevaporative (PE) disk winds, which contribute to the dispersal once accretion weakens. NIRSpec/IFU's superior angular resolution and spectral coverage recently achieved a breakthrough with spatially resolved line maps, identifying clear signatures of MHD winds in 3 edge-on, high accretion rate systems that have dissipated their natal envelopes. Here we propose to expand on these initial findings by mapping 14 spectroscopically-identified winds from well-characterized disks around the most common ~0.1-0.4 Msun stars, which are also the most frequent exoplanet hosts. By spanning a range of accretion rates, we will determine whether the character of the disk wind changes with mass accretion rate and find if and when winds transition from predominantly MHD to PE, which is critical to constrain disk lifetimes, hence planet formation and migration. By measuring wind mass loss rates, we will test a key prediction of MHD-driven winds, that mass ejection rates in the wind are comparable to the mass accretion rate onto the star. In addition to mapping radially extended disk winds, NIRSpec/IFU will spatially resolve jets, enabling a comparison in the mass ejection rate and opening angle in the jet with those of the wind, thus providing crucial constraints to models of jet-wind interactions. With JWST spectro-imaging already available for younger protostellar systems, our study will also enable a comparative analysis of outflow morphologies across key stages of star and disk evolution.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

These observations aim at spatially resolving jets and disk winds with NIRSpec/IFU. Our sample includes 14 low-mass stars, each surrounded by an accretion disk and having a spectroscopically-confirmed slow wind. To ensure each source is centered within the IFU, we begin each observation with a target acquisition, except for Sz84, which is too bright. Note however that Sz84's coordinates, including proper motion, are well-established. We want to obtain a complete spectral coverage to have simultaneous accretion, jet, and wind diagnostics, hence we observe in all three grating settings (G140H/F100LP, G235H/F170LP, and G395H/F290LP). Exposure times are set to achieve a line-to-continuum S/N for the H2 S9 in the G395H setting of at least 10 at an intermediate distance of 0.5 arcsec for sources in the two largest Macc bins, and a S/N of 5-8 for those in the lowest Macc bin, which ensures even higher contrast at greater separations (Workbook 220655). For 3 of the 5 sources in the lowest Macc bin, which require the longest exposures, we use the NRSIRS2 readout to avoid generating a data excess warning and have adjusted the number of groups to prevent saturation of any NIRSpec pixels. However, for 2MASS-J16090141-3925119 (Obs 7) we cannot use the NRSIRS2 readout because the star is too bright and we could only accommodate 2 groups, which, based on communication with STScI staff member T. Beck, is not recommended. We note that this visit exceeds the downlink allocation only by 13485.47MB (APT diagnostics "Warning: Data Excess over lower threshold"). A much shorter integration to remove the warning does not meet our science goals.