---
id: 7033
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging  NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Julie Hlavacek-Larrondo  Co-PIs: Hyunseop Choi"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "12.4/2.5"
program_title: "Mapping the Dust and Multiphase Gas in the Perseus Cluster of Galaxies"
type: "GO"
---
# 7033 - Mapping the Dust and Multiphase Gas in the Perseus Cluster of Galaxies
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7033
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label      | Observing Template             | Science Target               |
| :--------- | :----------------------------- | :--------------------------- |
|            | NIRCam Imaging                 | (1) NGC-1275                 |
|            | NIRCam Imaging                 | (1) NGC-1275                 |
| MOS plan1  | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (2) coordinates_and_weights_oct4 |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose multi-filter NIRCam imaging and NIRSpec/MOS observations of the Perseus cluster of galaxies. Perseus is the archetype for radio-mode feedback and has been considered the best laboratory for understanding the complex interactions between radio jets and the hot X-ray-emitting intracluster medium for decades. It contains a spectacular nebula of multiphase gas that spans the inner 100 kpc. The most important and unanswered question about this multiphase gas is its unknown origin. Here, we target the fine structures and subtleties in dust emission within this multiphase gas, aiming to achieve the first in-depth mapping of the dust in any cluster core. NIRSpec/MOS will also, for the first time, map the 1000–4000 K phase for the entire nebula, the last phase without spectroscopic data. By leveraging the JWST's unique capabilities and drawing on extensive multiwavelength observations from Chandra, Hitomi, ALMA, JVLA, HST, Herschel, Spitzer, CFHT, and others, we aim to deliver an unprecedented, in-depth analysis of all gas phases in Perseus and decipher the origin of the dust and multiphase gas in cluster cores. In just 12.4 hours, this study will therefore significantly enhance our understanding of how black hole radio jets shape and influence their surrounding gas environments.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We request NIRCAM imaging of the filamentary nebula in the Perseus cluster of galaxies, centered on NGC 1275, with the F335M/F300M/F360M filters. These will be observed with the long wavelength channel. The F335M will probe the strong 3.28 micron PAH emission feature. The F300M and F360M filters will be used to remove the stellar continuum. Combined, these will provide the first detailed view of the dust in the multiphase gas of Perseus.

Simultaneously, using the short wavelength channel, we will image the cluster with the F162M, F150W and F182M filters. F162M will target the [Fe II] emission. F182M will image the Pa-alpha emission, probing the 2000 K gas phase. The F150W filter will be used to remove the stellar continuum.

We split the observations into 2 visits to not exceed the data limit.

NIRCAM's field of view is also perfectly suited to the extent of the nebula (~2.2 by 2.2 arcmin). Module B will be used to image the target. As one of the out of field impact goals, Module A will be pointed outside of NGC 1275 to maximise globular cluster coverage. We use the 4-point INTRAMODULEBOX dithering pattern as suggested by the JWST documentation for extended sources.

We also request NIRSpec/MOS observation of 52 selected regions in the filamentary nebula in the Perseus cluster of galaxies. The grating and filter combination of G235H/F170LP will be used to observe 1.66 to 3.05 micron where we aim to detect molecular and vibro-rotational emission lines from hydrogen with ~100 km/s resolution. We will use a 3-shutter slitlet for each source, coupled with a 3-position nod pattern and a 2-point Fixed Dither to mitigate detector effects and to improve spatial and spectral sampling. The observation contains 2 MSA configurations generated from the MSA Planning Tool.

Finally, we included coordinated parallel observation using NIRCAM with NIRSpec MOS as the primary. We will use F300M, F360M, F150W, and F182M filters for long wavelength and short wavelength channels, respectively. These observations will be used to probe distant globular clusters (~100 kpc from the central galaxy NGC 1275).

With JWST's unmatched sensitivity and spatial resolution, it is the only telescope capable of reaching our scientific goals.