---
id: 7034
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: R. Tully  Co-PIs: Gagandeep Anand"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "43.0/0.0"
program_title: "Distance Scale Linkages between JWST Tip of the Red Giant Branch and JWST/HST Surface Brightness Fluctuations (and SNIa in E Hosts)"
type: "GO"
---
# 7034 - Distance Scale Linkages between JWST Tip of the Red Giant Branch and JWST/HST Surface Brightness Fluctuations (and SNIa in E Hosts)
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7034
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label      | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :--------- | :----------------- | :------------- |
| NGC524     | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) NGC-0524   |
| NGC1201    | NIRCam Imaging     | (2) NGC-1201   |
| NGC1340/44 | NIRCam Imaging     | (3) NGC-1344   |
| NGC1374    | NIRCam Imaging     | (4) NGC-1374   |
| IC2006     | NIRCam Imaging     | (5) IC-2006    |
| NGC3643    | NIRCam Imaging     | (7) NGC-3643   |
| NGC3941    | NIRCam Imaging     | (8) NGC-3941   |
| NGC4036    | NIRCam Imaging     | (9) NGC-4036   |
| NGC4125    | NIRCam Imaging     | (10) NGC-4125  |
| NGC4386    | NIRCam Imaging     | (11) NGC-4386  |
| NGC5839    | NIRCam Imaging     | (14) NGC-5839  |

---

## ABSTRACT

The value of the Hubble constant remains contentious and there is a need for a completely different path to a determination from one using Cepheids or supernovae. A Population II path that is particularly suited to exploitation with JWST involves the bright stars on the red giant branch. In nearby galaxies those stars are resolved and distances can be determined from the magnitudes of those at the tip of the red giant branch (TRGB). In more distant galaxies those same kinds of stars are blended but distances can be inferred from the spatial power spectum of surface brightness fluctuations (SBF). HST SBF observations have been made with WFC3/IR of 220 galaxies. However, the absolute calibration of this outstanding sample depends on a transfer from dated Cepheid observations. The proposed observations will provide a proper calibration of the HST material tied to a Pop II JWST calibration by extending the overlap from 6 to 17 galaxies.

That JWST calibration including establishment of the TRGB zero point and the transfer to SBF is a work in progress. This program will almost double the connections between TRGB and SBF in JWST passbands from 14 to 25 galaxies, all within 30 Mpc. As a secondary benefit, TRGB distances will be determined for 9 elliptical galaxy hosts of Type Ia supernovae.

Immediate products will be a determination of H0 from 220 HST SBF observations within 100 Mpc with a Pop II calibration and a separate determination of H0 from the calibration of SN Ia in E/S0 hosts. The long term benefit is through the calibration of SBF with JWST which ultimately will give H0 with observations reaching 350 Mpc.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Primary observations are made with NIRCam using the SW F090W and F150W filters, with roughly 2/3 of the exposure time devoted to the F090W passband. Simultaneous observations are made through the LW filters F277W and F356W. In all cases, the NIRCam positioning is such that there is simultaneous coverage of the core and the halo of the target galaxies.
All observations use full subarrays and small 4-point dithers.