---
id: 7049
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Lamiya Mowla  Co-PIs: Kartheik Iyer"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "50.0/0.0"
program_title: "A Unique Opportunity to Probe Lensing-Magnified Star Clusters in a Low-Mass Galaxy at z_spec=8.3 with JWST"
type: "GO"
---
# 7049 - A Unique Opportunity to Probe Lensing-Magnified Star Clusters in a Low-Mass Galaxy at z_spec=8.3 with JWST
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7049
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template    | Science Target |
| :---- | :-------------------- | :------------- |
| 1     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) Firefly    |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose for high signal-to-noise spatially resolved spectroscopic observations of the Firefly Sparkle (FS), a highly magnified galaxy at z$_{spec}$= 8.3, using NIRSpec/PRISM IFU to obtain spectra of the individual star clusters.
These observations are only possible due to NIRSpec's unparalleled sensitivity, making it uniquely capable of resolving the spatially resolved ISM conditions within and around the star clusters in a lensing magnified low-mass galaxy at cosmic dawn.
These timely observations coincide with JWST's groundbreaking ability to directly observe globular cluster (GC) formation, and provide a bridge between the old stellar populations that we see in GCs today and the young clusters they are thought to form from. Our key science goals are to: (i) characterize the extreme ISM conditions in the clusters, (ii) determine whether they form in a single burst or show extended star formation, (iii) investigate the potential evidence for an excess of massive stars expected in early star formation using Nitrogen abundances, and (iv) evaluate the possibility of a clumpy CGM by spatially resolving the Lyman-break. These observations will significantly advance our understanding of the birth of the first stellar systems in a low-mass galaxy at extreme redshifts, probe the connection between massive star clusters in young galaxies and future globular clusters, and provide synergies with upcoming ALMA measurements.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will use NIRSpec/IFU with CLEAR/PRISM to observe the galaxy for 41.5 hours. This will provide a continuum SNR per pixel of $\sim 5-15$ for the star clusters and $\sim 2-3$ at $2 \, \mu$m for the diffuse galaxy body. The entire FS fits diagonally within the IFU field of view (FoV). We will use a 4-point dither pattern centered at four locations along the galaxy. This 16-point dither ensures robust background spectra free from contamination by the nearby bright cluster galaxy, while covering all star clusters of interest. The central brightest clusters, crucial for ISM studies, will remain in the FoV for all 16 pointings, achieving an SNR of 20 for the continuum and 40-80 for emission lines. The outermost clusters, with the lowest magnification, will be in the FoV for half the pointings, allowing us to determine their stellar properties. We will use the NRSIRS2 readout pattern, which reduces correlated 1/f noise, crucial for sky background acquisition. Each pointing will include 32 groups and 4 integrations. To avoid leakage through the MSA, we request a V3PA constraint of 191 to 216 and 296 to 112 degrees, ensuring that bright stars and cluster galaxies are behind the MSA's solid metal plates. Blind pointing target acquisition, accurate to 0.1", will position the galaxy near the center of the $3" \times 3"$ FoV.