---
id: 7068
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRISS/SOSS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Dhvani Doshi"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "47.6/0.0"
program_title: "Surveying Stellar Shenanigans: Exploring M dwarf Flares for Exoplanetary Insights"
type: "GO"
---
# 7068 - Surveying Stellar Shenanigans: Exploring M dwarf Flares for Exoplanetary Insights
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7068
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label             | Observing Template                     | Science Target        |
| :---------------- | :------------------------------------- | :-------------------- |
| 3200K M-dwarf     | NIRISS Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy | (1) TIC_261560580 |
| 3300K M-dwarf     | NIRISS Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy | (2) TIC_231020638 |
| 3500K M-dwarf     | NIRISS Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy | (3) TIC_80427281  |
| 3600K M-dwarf     | NIRISS Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy | (4) TIC_89502706  |
| 3700K M-dwarf     | NIRISS Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy | (5) TIC_207140650 |

---

## ABSTRACT

This proposal presents a legacy campaign to observe stellar flares on M dwarf stars in the near-infrared (NIR) using the James Webb Space Telescope's Near Infrared Imager and Slitless Spectrograph instrument. Exoplanetary transits, eclipses, and phase curves all rely on the stability of the stellar spectrum over time. However, this stability is disrupted by stellar flares, which alter the star's spectrum in unpredictable ways. To date, there have only been a handful of published NIR spectra of M dwarf flares, despite their crucial role in understanding exoplanetary environments. Given that current models are insufficient for M dwarf stars, it is essential to directly study and model M dwarf stellar flares. By observing 5 active M dwarf stars for 5-10 hours each, our goal is to compile a comprehensive library of NIR stellar flares, totaling over 400 events with energies exceeding 10^{30} erg. This initiative will significantly advance our understanding of M dwarf stars, with implications for transit spectroscopy and stellar physics. Through detailed analysis of flare properties and behavior in the NIR regime, our proposal aims to address critical gaps in our understanding of stellar flare phenomena on M dwarfs, refining existing models and enhancing our ability to interpret exoplanetary spectra in the presence of stellar activity.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose continuous observations of five target stars: TIC 261560580, TIC 231020638, TIC 80427281, TIC 89502706, and TIC 207140650. These observations will be done using NIRISS SOSS, each lasting approximately 5-10 hours, totaling 31.2 hours of science time and just under 50 hours of charged time. We employ the SUBSTRIP256 subarray to capture measurements for the Halpha line and utilize the NISRAPID readout pattern. To prevent saturation from potential stellar flares, we adjust the groups per integration to maintain a total well fraction below 0.8. Integration times of 30-60s ensure adequate data resolution during flares, typically lasting under 30 minutes. TIC 26156058 will be observed with 10 groups per integration for a total of 576 integrations. TIC 23102063 will be observed with 4 groups per integration for a total of 1243 integratins. TIC 80427281 will be observed with 5 groups per integrations for a total of 711 integrations. TIC 89502706 will be observed with 5 groups per integrations for a total of 575 integrations. TIC 207140650 will be with 6 groups per integration for a total of 542 integrations. Calculations with the Exoplanet Characterization Toolkit (ExoCTK) confirm no contamination during visibility windows for all five stars observed with NIRISS SOSS. Target acquisition for each star utilizes SOSSFAINT with the NISRAPID readout pattern, taking a negligible 0.56s with 11 groups per integration.