---
id: 7075
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging  MIRI/MRS  NIRCam/Imaging  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Dan Milisavljevic"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "30.8/0.0"
program_title: "Kepler's Supernova Remnant: New fundamental Insights into Type Ia Supernova Explosions"
type: "GO"
---
# 7075 - Kepler's Supernova Remnant: New fundamental Insights into Type Ia Supernova Explosions
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7075
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                        | Observing Template                    | Science Target        |
| :--------------------------- | :------------------------------------ | :-------------------- |
| MIRI imaging                 | MIRI Imaging                          | (1) KEPLER-SNR        |
| MIRI Imaging Background      | MIRI Imaging                          | (5) BACKGROUND        |
| NIRCam imaging               | NIRCam Imaging                        | (1) KEPLER-SNR        |
| NIRSpec IFU-A                | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy              | (2) IFU-A             |
| NIRSpec IFU-B                | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy              | (3) IFU-B             |
| NIRSpec IFU-C                | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy              | (4) IFU-C             |
| NIRSpec IFU background       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy              | (5) BACKGROUND        |
| MIRI IFU-A                   | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy   | (2) IFU-A             |
| MIRI IFU-B                   | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy   | (3) IFU-B             |
| MIRI IFU-C                   | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy   | (4) IFU-C             |
| MIRI IFU background          | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy   | (5) BACKGROUND        |

## ABSTRACT

Type Ia supernovae (SNe) have fundamental consequences in a broad range of astrophysical topics, and hence the identification of their unknown explosion mechanisms and progenitor systems is ranked among the most important problems of stellar astrophysics. Widely believed to be the result of the thermonuclear combustion of a carbon-oxygen white dwarf that is destabilized through the interaction with a companion star, whether or not that companion is degenerate and whether it survives are all critical unanswered questions despite numerous extragalactic SN Ia studies.

JWST's resolution and sensitivity open new pathways to investigate the nature of SNe Ia via spatially resolved observations of young, nearby Galactic Ia SN remnants. One extraordinary SN Ia remnant, Kepler's SNR (SN 1604), best highlights the issue about whether SNe Ia have single or double degenerate progenitors (SD vs DD): its circumstellar medium suggests a SD channel, whereas the lack of a surviving donor star is best explained by the DD scenario. We propose a JWST imaging and spectroscopy survey of Kepler's SNR that will: 1) greatly improve characterization of the SN ejecta, CSM, and dust over previous studies, 2) test the leading hypothesis that its dust properties require a 4-6 Msun AGB star that is no longer present, and 3) map the distribution of C+O material to distinguish between SNe Ia explosion models. Our results results will help interpret JWST observations of unresolved extragalactic SNe Ia, be synergistic with new XRISM observations, and provide tests of 3D simulations that evolve SNe Ia to the remnant phase.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Imaging mosaics will be obtained with NIRCam + MIRI covering the entire Kepler supernova remnant (SNR). NIRCam filters F070W, F162M, F356W, and F444W have been selected to map shocks, Fe and Si emission from CSM and ejecta, potential CO molecular emission, and synchrotron emission. MIRI filters F770W, F1280W, F1800W, F2100W, and F2550W will sample and differentiate ejecta, CSM, and dust. Mosaic configurations have been carefully selected to optimally cover the entire remnant. NIRSpec IFU + MIRI MRS spectroscopy of three representative locations will also be obtained. NIRSpec observations will use the G395M, and the MIRI-MRS observation will span the full 5-28 micron range over multiple exposures. IFU observations will be obtained no sooner than 60 days after imaging to allow time for analysis of mosaics and determination of precise locations across the SNR. IFU observations will be obtained no later than 210 days after imaging to minimize changes in emission resulting from expansion of the SNR.