---
id: 7078
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Ikki Mitsuhashi"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "49.1/0.0"
program_title: "On the search for a primeval black hole in a spectroscopically-confirmed galaxy at z=12.3"
type: "GO"
---
# 7078 - On the search for a primeval black hole in a spectroscopically-confirmed galaxy at z=12.3
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7078
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label          | Observing Template                | Science Target |
| :------------- | :-------------------------------- | :------------- |
| Halpha         | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) GHZ2       |
| Background_Ha | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) GHZ2       |

## ABSTRACT

JWST has discovered a surprisingly large number of bright galaxies at z>10, which challenges theoretical expectations. To account for their existence, we must consider different physical properties compared to lower-z systems, or the potential influence of early AGN activity. Recent observations on the bright galaxy GN-z11 at z=10.60 suggest the presence of an active black hole with a super-Eddington accretion rate, which accounts for its high luminosity. It is now imperative to study other bright galaxies at similar or even higher redshifts to test whether this early onset of AGN is a common feature among these unique systems.
Here, we propose to conduct MIRI/MRS spectroscopy of GHZ2 at z=12.35, the highest redshift AGN candidate. Recent NIRSpec/PRISM and MIRI/LRS spectroscopy detected several emission lines that revealed extremely high ionization conditions, potentially due to AGN. Additionally, compact morphology and SED fitting results imply a significant AGN contribution. Nevertheless, their low spectral resolution hampers the identification of unique AGN signatures, such as broad emission lines. The proposed MRS spectroscopy, with R~3000, will allow us to measure the Ha line width and investigate whether GHZ2 has an AGN through one of the robust and well-calibrated methodologies. This is crucial to understand the physical origins responsible for the overabundance of bright galaxies at z>11. If the existence of an AGN is confirmed, this would be the most distant massive black hole to date, providing unparalleled information about the black hole seeding mechanisms and early black hole growth scenarios.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This program will perform MIRI/MRS spectroscopy of GHZ2/GLASS-z12, the highest redshift AGN candidate.
The target of this program, GHZ2, is the best target to explore a seed of the SMBH given its compact morphologies, strong UV emission lines (EW(CIV)>20A), and MRS coverage of the Halpha, Hbeta, and [OIII] simultaneously.
We will use the Medium (B) gratings in Channels 2, which cover wavelengths of ~6um and ~8 um, where the [OIII] and Halpha lines are redshifted. We aim to demonstrate the AGN signature through the identification of a broad permitted Halpha emission line and narrow forbidden [OIII] line by detecting the whole Halpha and [OIII]4959 line at ~15 sigma and ~12 sigma levels, respectively.
Halpha broad line is one of the robust ways to identify AGN, as alternative ways of UV line diagnostics, electron density measurements, and broad line signatures in bright UV line can be affected by several other contaminants such as high-ionizing ISM conditions in star-forming galaxies and outflows.
ETC simulation suggests that the broad line will be detected in >6sigma if GHZ2 has a similar AGN activity with typical JWST-identified AGN.