---
id: 7081
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Danielle Berg"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "25.8/0.0"
program_title: "A Race Against the Clock: Too Much Nitrogen, Too Early?"
type: "GO"
---
# 7081 - A Race Against the Clock: Too Much Nitrogen, Too Early?
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7081
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
**1. List of Labels, Corresponding Observing Template, and Science Targets:**

*   **Label:** Plan-3shutter
    *   **Observing Template:** NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy
    *   **Science Target:** (2) Highz-CNO-Targets

---

## ABSTRACT

Chemical abundances encode the integrated star formation over the lifetimes of galaxies. Since stars produce nitrogen and oxygen on different timescales, the relative abundance of N/O acts as a clock constraining the star formation history. Specifically, N/O describes the relative ratio of moderately old stars(>100 Myr) to very young stars (<10 Myr). Recently, JWST observations of extreme star-forming galaxies only a few 100 Myrs after the big bang have found extreme UV N IV] and N III] emission lines. These lines suggest super-solar N/O ratios, implying a contradiction: galaxies existing for < a few 100 Myr seem to have N enrichment from substantial older stellar populations. These galaxies have too much N too early in the universe. However, accurate relative abundances from rest-UV lines are extremely sensitive to the physical conditions assumed, such as the high densities (> 1e6 cm^-3) measured for some high-z galaxies. Thus, unearthing the conditions that produce the N lines is essential to constrain the chemical enrichment of the first galaxies.

We propose 25.8 hours of high-resolution NIRSpec MSA observations of z>5 galaxies with existing detections of FUV NIV], NIII], OIII] and CIII] emission lines, providing the first sample of accurate measurements of high-ionization gas densities and N/O ratios derived under these conditions. This will allow us to test whether current models of rapid N enrichment are correct or if they are driven by extreme environments at high-z. The outcome will enable a blueprint to diagnose the properties of extreme N emission and reshape how we interpret metallicity and star formation in the earliest galaxies.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose high-resolution NIRSpec MSA observations of high-z galaxies and/or AGN in GOODS-S. Our primary targets are 6 z>5 sources with significant rest-UV C, N, and O line detections in their archival medium and low-resolution spectra. We will simultaneously target a large number of z>5 galaxies whose potential CIII] 1907,1909 emission lines will be covered by the proposed spectra configuration. We will use NIRSpec MSA in its high resolution (R~2700) mode with the G140H/F100LP for the goal of ensuring that the high-ionization density-sensitive CIII] 1907,1909 and NIV] 1483,1487 doublets are resolve. We calculate ETCs assuming the faintest individual CIII] line detection in our sample may only be a 20% of the integrated CIII] flux detected in the lower-resolution archival spectra.