---
id: 7084
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Joel Green"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "19.3/0.0"
program_title: "Measuring the Thickness of a J-Shock in Cep A West"
type: "GO"
---
# 7084 - Measuring the Thickness of a J-Shock in Cep A West
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7084
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                   | Observing Template                     | Science Target          |
| :---------------------- | :------------------------------------- | :---------------------- |
| GGD37 Shockfront C      | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (4) HH-168-SHOCKFRONT-C |
| GGD37 Shockfront G      | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (3) HH-168-SHOCKFRONT-G |
| GGD37 off-position      | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (2) HH-168-SKY          |

---

## ABSTRACT

We will measure the thickness of a resolved interface between jet and cloud shock for the first time, using the high spatial resolution of JWST/MIRI. Only JWST can spatially resolve the working surface (bow shock) or other sources of potential confusion in this edge-on, emission line flow. We will map the high velocity HH 168 flow with the MIRI IFU, slicing the shock pixel by pixel in the dissociative zone, in search of a resolved magnetic precursor. The working surface size is hinted at the subpixel level by Spitzer mapping but only JWST/MIRI has the spatial resolution needed, which will provide critical constraints on interstellar shock models (pre-shock magnetic field, change in velocity, temperature, and density across the shock boundary). Resolving the working surface provides observational constraints on theoretical estimates for turbulence, mass density, and shock morphologies generated during periods of massive star formation used in models of interstellar shocks to justify star formation efficiency parameters. Observational constraints on these parameters are ultimately required to understand the role of clouds, shocks, and filaments in our galactic ecosystem.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Observing plan: (1) Mosaic #1: at the “origin”. We will observe the HH168 “origin” position (centered on the [Fe II] peak just north of Knot HW from Hartigan et al., 2000) with a 1×5 MIRI mosaic in all three wavelength ranges. The position angle is constrained to fall roughly along the flow axis, and we estimate that only PA of 11.5 - 22.0, or 180 degrees reversed (191.5 - 202), will provide sufficient coverage to stay on this relatively narrow flow. (2) Mosaic #2 at the “shockfront”. We will observe the HH168 “shockfront” position (centered on on Knots D and C from Hartigan et al., 2000) with a 1×5 MIRI mosaic in all three wavelength ranges, with same PA range as Mosaic #1. Note that it is NOT a requirement that the PAs for the two mosaics match, but both must fall in the required range. (3) Single pointing: Off-flow sky position. We require a single MIRI IFU pointing to establish a baseline level of emission line and continuum flux, to assist in removal of contamination of extended dust components and scattered light from various luminous sources in the region (ie. the HW objects; Hughes & Wouterloot 1982). We have selected a position sufficiently distant to avoid the HH objects, 1 arcmin south of the shock center. There is no orient or timing restriction on this observation.

Observational requirements: In order to determine the depth of each tile in the MIRI mosaic, we require uniform sensitivity to a given emission line. To reach the necessary depth to perform our experiment, we defined two limiting cases, using the Spitzer-IRS integrated intensities as a guide. (1) We require S/N of at least 5 on the 5 faintest lines of sufficient energy to constrain the highest shock velocities - [Ne III] 15.5 um (A and C), [Fe III] 22.9 um (B), and [O IV] 25.9 um (C). This constrained the minimum integration depth for wavelength ranges B and C. (2) We require sufficient S/N to distinguish between shock velocities of 60, 80, 100, and 120 km/s (for example, see the bottom right panel of Fig. 3). Based on these predictions, we expect we need at least S/N of 25 on all four [Fe II] lines (5.3, 17.9, 24.5, and 26.0 um) in order to unambiguously fit the model parameters.The limiting lineflux is [Fe II] 5.3m, which sets our required depth for wavelength range A. We use the recommended 4-pt dither pattern to avoid any sensitivity gaps, with 10% tile overlap. Our pointing requirements (0.2) are achieved without target acquisition.

With these constraints, using ETC and APT, we plan the following. Each tile will be observed to the same depth by wavelength range - 40 groups/1 integration for range C; 56 groups/1 integration for range B; 85 groups/3 integrations for range A, with the identified PA restrictions, for each of the two mosaics (22 56 08.8 +62 01 47.0, and 22 56 03.2 +62 02 4.8, all J2000 coords) and our designated sky background position (22 56 068 +62 00 52.0).