---
id: 7085
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Roberta Paladini"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "24.1/0.0"
program_title: "Dust Evolution in Molecular Cores"
type: "GO"
---
# 7085 - Dust Evolution in Molecular Cores
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7085
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label          | Observing Template                | Science Target          |
| :------------- | :-------------------------------- | :---------------------- |
| b68 plan v7    | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (1) B68-MASTER          |
| b335 plan v1   | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (2) B335-MASTER         |
| l694 v2        | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (3) SELECTION-L694      |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose to constrain the initial stages of grain growth in early sites of star formation. This objective will be achieved by obtaining NIRSpec MSA spectroscopic observations of background stars behind three dense molecular cores of different evolutionary stages. By employing background stars, we will avoid uncertainties arising when embedded sources, with uncertain IR excesses, are used. The proposed observations will provide unprecedented spectroscopic information on the systematic variation of the extinction curve with depth into the cloud, at levels of extinction that were not possible to probe before JWST.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to perform NIRSpec Multi-Shutter Array (MSA) spectroscopic observations of background stars as seen behind three Galactic cores (B68, L694-2, B335) at different evolutionary stages. Our catalogs of background stars contain large numbers of stars through which we can study the three cores (427, 387 and 331 stars behind the B68, L694-2 and B335 cores, respectively). The observations will be executed in the G140H/F100LP, G235H/F170LP and the G395H/F290LP filters in the high-spectral resolution mode.

Given the astrometric accuracy of our source catalogs, we selected the MSATA Target Acquisition method. In addition, the aperture PA is set to 50.0 (B68) and 0.0 (B335/L694-2). We will use 13 groups per integration and 1 integration per exposure, with a NRSIRS2 readout pattern, which allows optimizing data volume. In order to obtain a uniform spatial and spectral coverage for the targets in each of the molecular cores, as well as to mitigate leakage signal through the MSA, we will use two configurations per core with the recommended 3-shutter slitlet nod pattern.

Finally, using the imaging mirror of NIRSpec, we will take confirmation images, in the Target Acquisition and New MSA Config mode, with 10 groups per integration, 1 integration per exposure, and by using the NRSIRS2RAPID readout pattern. These confirmation images will be used to analyze the position of science sources through the open shutter slitlets.
The total requested time is 24.10 hrs, with 14.48 hrs of science time, for a corresponding efficiency of 60%.