---
id: 7087
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging  NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Joel Green"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "6.0/0.0"
program_title: "A High Precision Disk Opacity Law from the Great Serpens Shadow"
type: "GO"
---
# 7087 - A High Precision Disk Opacity Law from the Great Serpens Shadow
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7087
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label          | Observing Template | Science Target                       |
| :------------- | :----------------- | :----------------------------------- |
| NIRCam image   | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) GREAT-SERPENS-DISK-SHADOW      |
| MIRI image     | MIRI Imaging       | (1) GREAT-SERPENS-DISK-SHADOW      |

---

## ABSTRACT

In a disk system, starlight penetrates the disk surface layers subject to the dust opacity as a function of wavelength. The relative dust opacity law is critical input for protoplanetary disk formation and evolution models, but has not yet been measured empirically. An observational measurement of the opacity in a disk will influence planet formation models, settling, and interpretation of surface tracers accessible to JWST, including molecular gas. However, the precision needed to measure the opacity law via direct methods cannot be achieved with existing facilities. We propose to observe, for the first time, the relative disk opacity law in a young disk through the magnifying effect of shadowing. The Herbig Ae/Be-like star HBC672 (EC82), embedded in the Serpens molecular cloud, is associated with a giant (17000 AU scale) disk shadow revealed through HST/WFC3IR imaging. In this edge-on circumstellar disk system, starlight is occulted by disk surface structures in the innermost few AU, creating a sharp conical shadow against the cloud background. The shadow is cast from the innermost AU region of the disk in this system, at least three orders of magnitude smaller than the shadow extent, magnifying the effect of disk opacity by at least three orders of magnitude against the Serpens cloud background.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Using JWST/NIRCam and MIRI imaging we will measure the relative disk opacity law in 13 bands from 0.9-18 microns by determining the shadow opening angle, translated to disk scale height, as a function of wavelength. Using this special geometric setup, this would be the first empirical measurement of the dust opacity law in a planet-forming disk.

In order to decipher and measure the shadow opening angle (ie. the boundary between shadowed and illuminated cloud material), we must be able to detect the boundary; this requires sufficient sensitivity to detect the fainter of the shadow or illuminated cloud structure at all proposed wavelengths. At wavelengths less than 5 um, we use pre-JWST data to estimate the flux density of material inside and outside of the shadow. At longer wavelengths where the shadow is not resolved (ie. by Spitzer), we measure the flux density near and more distantly from the central protostar EC82. Our observations will achieve S/N of 70 on the lowest value at each wavelength (ie. within the shadow, or nearby cloud emission). We used the JWST exposure time calculator for each of 17 bands spanning 0.7-28 um, 8 (paired) bandpasses with NIRCam, and 5 bandpasses with MIRI.

We observe in four paired bandpasses with NIRCam: F090W/F250M, F115/F300M, F162M+F150W2, and F210M/F430M. Each uses the SHALLOW2 readout pattern and 5 groups per integration, and the INTRAMODULEX 6 point dither. The F162M filter is similar to F164N on HST/WFC3-IR, which will provide a cross-calibration anchor and provide the baseline shadow position angle for this dataset. The F300M will include water ice. Each of the four filter pairs requires 1030 seconds of exposure time, for a total exposure time of 4128 seconds, or 11024 seconds including overhead.

We observe in five bandpasses/filter settings with MIRI: F560W, F770W, F1000W, F1280W, and F1800W. Each uses a fast readout pattern and 40 groups per integration (with a single integration and exposure), except for F1800W in which only 30 groups per integration are required to achieve the S/N goal. We use a 6 point cycling dither pattern. The F1000W will include silicate dust emission. Each filter requires 666 seconds exposure time, except for F1800W which requires only 500 seconds, for a total exposure time of 3192 seconds, or 8249 seconds including overhead.

As indicated in the special requirements, all NIRCam and MIRI imaging for this program must be executed from start to finish within a 5 day time period to avoid potential variability in the shadow position angle, although the specific time period is not further constrained. We used a POSTARG to center the EC82 star in between detectors (mostly) in the NIRCam SW channel, centering in one of the LW detectors. This will reduce the confusion introduced by the EC82 star on the shadow angle. For most likely angles, the shadow will fall diagonally in the SW detectors.