---
id: 7099
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Ilse Cleeves"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "27.0/0.0"
program_title: "Unveiling the Changing C/O Chemistry in Young Planet-Forming Disks with JWST and ALMA"
type: "GO"
---
# 7099 - Unveiling the Changing C/O Chemistry in Young Planet-Forming Disks with JWST and ALMA
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7099
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label         | Observing Template                | Science Target          |
| :------------ | :-------------------------------- | :---------------------- |
| YLW19-M       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) YLW-19              |
| GSS29-M       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) GSS-29              |
| J162636-F     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) J162636.8-241552    |
| WL18-F        | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) WL-18               |
| J162656-F     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (5) J162656.8-241351    |
| VSSG24-F      | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (6) VSSG-24             |
| Eli233-F      | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (7) Elia-2-33           |
| YLW18-B       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (8) YLW-18              |
| YLW47-M       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (9) YLW-47              |
| Sr10-F        | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (10) SR-10              |
| YLW58-F       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (11) YLW-58             |
| Sr20W-F       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (12) SR-20W             |
| J162854-F     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (13) J162854.1-244744   |

## ABSTRACT

Recent advances now allow us to statistically compare the compositions of planets with their planet-forming environments. Gas giant planets with masses within a factor of a few of Jupiter exhibit a wide range of atmospheric C/O ratios, including values greater than 1. A high C/O ratio has traditionally been interpreted as evidence that a planet formed beyond the water snowline and later migrated inward. However, recent JWST observations suggest that the C/O environment in protoplanetary disks is more complex and likely evolves over the first few million years (Myr) of the disk's lifetime. Specifically, recent JWST MIRI observations of young (< 1 Myr) Class II disks reveal chemistry consistent with high C/O ratios in the inner few astronomical units. This raises the possibility that such planets could form in situ, without significant migration. To better understand these environments, we propose a survey of 20 young Class II disks in the Rho Oph star-forming region, combining 7 archival datasets with 13 new JWST MIRI observations of star-disk systems. The sample is chosen based on having sensitive ALMA data enabling a comparison with the outer disk composition, including C/O. This expanded dataset will provide a more representative view of typical planet-forming environments around both M-dwarfs and solar-type stars, offering new insights into the evolution of C/O ratios in disks and their influence on the formation and composition of emerging planets.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to use JWST MIRI MRS to observe 13 disks targeted as part of the ALMA Disk-Exoplanet C/Onnection Large Program, that we will combine with 7 archival observations to get a compete sample of 20 young class II disks. Our lines of interest span the full MIRI range and thus we require full spectral scans of our sources from 5-28 micron. To detect the lines of interest requires SNR of 300 at 15 micron and >100 at 20 micron. Each observation begins with Target Acquisition and utilizes simultaneous imaging. Since we expect the inner disk mid-IR emission to be essentially point-like to MIRI, we adopt a four-point dither and do not carry out a dedicated background observation per source. Based on our ETC calculations, we adopt a FASTR1 readout pattern. The targets are grouped based on their known or expected mid-IR brightness (using Spitzer spectra when available), setting the exact ratio of groups and integrations to optimize for cosmic ray mitigation (faint sources) or saturation (bright sources). For the simultaneous imaging, we use the F560, F770W, and F1000W to see if we can serendipitously find any extended structures like nearby outflows or streamers given the relative youth of this SFR. We set our groups for each filter to 5, 8, and 10 respectively, and integrations to 4 for all three, which would allow us to to see faint structures like what was reported in Mullin et al. 2024 as an additional qualitative signature of the relative youth of the region near each of our targets, while not saturating on a 12th K-magnitude K-dwarf star, thus allowing these data to also improve astrometric solutions if needed.