---
id: 7184
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Martin Millon"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "23.7/0.0"
program_title: "Measuring H0 with Deep NIRcam imaging of the next generation of time-delay lenses"
type: "GO"
---
# 7184 - Measuring H0 with Deep NIRcam imaging of the next generation of time-delay lenses
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7184
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target      |
| :---- | :----------------- | :------------------ |
| 1     | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) WG0214-2105     |
| 2     | NIRCam Imaging     | (2) J0659+1629      |
| 3     | NIRCam Imaging     | (3) J0818-2613      |
| 4     | NIRCam Imaging     | (4) 2M1134-2103     |
| 5     | NIRCam Imaging     | (5) PSJ1606-2333    |
| 6     | NIRCam Imaging     | (6) PSJ1721+8842    |
| 7     | NIRCam Imaging     | (7) DESJ0053-2012   |
| 8     | NIRCam Imaging     | (8) J2205-3727      |
| 9     | NIRCam Imaging     | (9) DESJ0029-3814   |
| 16    | NIRCam Imaging     | (10) J2100-4452     |
| 10    | NIRCam Imaging     | (2) J0659+1629      |
| 11    | NIRCam Imaging     | (3) J0818-2613      |
| 12    | NIRCam Imaging     | (4) 2M1134-2103     |
| 13    | NIRCam Imaging     | (5) PSJ1606-2333    |
| 14    | NIRCam Imaging     | (6) PSJ1721+8842    |
| 15    | NIRCam Imaging     | (7) DESJ0053-2012   |
| 17    | NIRCam Imaging     | (10) J2100-4452     |

## ABSTRACT

If confirmed, the Hubble tension, i.e. the 5-sigma discrepancy between direct measurements of H0 in the local Universe with supernovae and the CMB value extrapolated to present day, would imply that the LCDM paradigm needs to be revised. Given the high stakes for cosmology, independent measurements are needed to confirm (or not) this tension. Time delays in strongly lensed quasars is the only single-step method truly independent of any other cosmological probe. It requires precise time delays and deep sharp images of the lensed quasar host galaxy in each system, but for 10 systems that have new exquisite time delays, the lensed host galaxy is beyond the reach of HST imaging capabilities. The superior resolution, sensitivity, and redder wavelength coverage of JWST-NIRCam are necessary to transform these lenses into distance indicators.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We request deep images with NIRCam in the F200W and F356W filters for 10 strongly lensed quasars with well-measured time delays. Contrary to HST/WFC3, NIRCam will have the sensitivity, resolution, and wavelength coverage to reveal the faint quasar host galaxies, lensed into Einstein rings. The choice of filter results from the best compromise between image resolution and the brightness of the high-redshift host galaxy. We will use the requested images to produce the most precise and accurate lens models to date and turn them into measurements of the Hubble Constant.
We apply a standard four-point dither pattern to mitigate detector defects and improve the final resolution of the images. For the brightest targets, we will use a combination of short exposures with fast readout on the SUB640 subarray and longer exposures on the full array. This strategy will allow us to mitigate the saturation of the bright quasar images while having enough stars in the large field-of-view exposures to reconstruct the PSF.
The exposure time is calculated to reach an SNR of at least 40 per pixel in the Einstein rings, which contain most of the lensing signal. This is reached in about 1 hour for a typical host galaxy at redshift ~2.