---
id: 7188
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Lorena Acuna"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "34.9/0.0"
program_title: "All you need is Love numbers: simultaneous measurement of the oblateness and atmospheric composition of a warm gas giant"
type: "GO"
---
# 7188 - All you need is Love numbers: simultaneous measurement of the oblateness and atmospheric composition of a warm gas giant
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7188
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label   | Observing Template                 | Science Target   |
| :------ | :--------------------------------- | :--------------- |
| TOI-199 | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) CD-60-1144   |
| TOI-199 | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) CD-60-1144   |

---

## ABSTRACT

A key open question for gas giant exoplanets is how heavy elements are distributed between the core and the envelope. With the combination of two observables uniquely accessible with JWST, the Love number and atmospheric metallicity, it is possible to break degeneracies in theoretical models and uniquely determine the interior structure. The Love number quantifies the deviation of the planet's shape from a perfect sphere due to rotational or tidal forces. For the same force, the deformation will be greater for planets with well-mixed regions between the core and the envelope (known as dilute cores) than for planets with well-differentiated cores. We will observe a long-period gas giant, TOI-199 b, and measure its rotation-induced oblateness from a precise transit light curve. We will also measure the atmospheric composition with transmission spectroscopy, determining the atmospheric metallicity and C/O ratio to a precision better than 0.28 and 0.04 dex, respectively. Taken together, these measurements will provide constraints on the mass and dilution of the core of a cold gas giant exoplanet. Jupiter and Saturn both have dilute cores. Thus, if we find the same is true for TOI-199 b, that would be a positive indication that dilute cores are a typical outcome of gas giant formation both in and out of the Solar System.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will observe two primary transits of TOI-199 b with NIRSpec/G395H. This is the most favourable planet for the simultaneous detection of planet oblateness and the measurement of the transmission spectrum, given its high TSM and low ratio between its age and tidal despinning timescale.
The two transit observations with NIRSpec/G395H will provide the required noise level to perform a strong detection of the planet's oblateness if the deformation of TOI-199 b is similar to that of Jupiter, even in the worst-case scenario on a null projected obliquity. NIRSpec/G395H provides also the wavelength coverage required to estimate the atmospheric metallicity to the accuracy we require for our science case.
The two visits must be scheduled to begin before the transit and end before the transit with a baseline on both sides. We specify the phase constraints to guarantee this.