---
id: 7196
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging  NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Ivanna Escala  Co-PIs: Karoline Gilbert, Kristen McQuinn, David Nidever, and Erik Tollerud"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "25.0/6.9"
program_title: "How Extreme is Pegasus W? Testing Galaxy Evolution at the Lowest Stellar Masses"
type: "GO"
---
# 7196 - How Extreme is Pegasus W? Testing Galaxy Evolution at the Lowest Stellar Masses
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7196
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                                          | Observing Template                 | Science Target |
| :--------------------------------------------- | :--------------------------------- | :------------- |
| Pegasus W Preimaging                           | NIRCam Imaging                     | (1) PEGW       |
| One Shutter Three Target Sets 3 fixed dithers midpoint | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (1) PEGW       |

---

## ABSTRACT

Ultrafaint dwarf galaxies (UFDs) are thought to be the fossils of galaxies that formed nearly all of their stars at early times, and were quenched by the bath of UV photons during the epoch of reionization. However, nearly all UFDs studied to date are satellites of the Milky Way or M31, where tidal and ram pressure stripping can significantly impact the history of a UFD. Recent high-resolution simulations suggest that in isolated UFDs, extended star formation will occur even in very low-mass halos, and reionization alone may not be responsible for quenching all UFDs.

Pegasus W is a newly discovered UFD on the far side of the Local Group. Based on HST imaging of the resolved stars, the galaxy was quenched long after reionization, ~7 Gyr ago. With a stellar mass of only 6.5x10^4 solar masses, Peg W may prove to be the most extreme example of low-mass, star forming galaxies discovered to date. The combination of Peg W's low stellar mass, extended star formation, and relative isolation means that matching its observed properties will provide a stringent test of galaxy formation models. However, understanding the nature of Peg W and its evolutionary history depends on measuring its dark matter (DM) content, for which we have no constraints.

We propose NIRSpec observations of the stars in Peg W to measure its DM halo mass to determine whether Peg W's total mass is large enough to have shielded itself from reionization. These observations will provide strong constraints on the efficacy of reionization in quenching the lowest mass galaxies, and more broadly test our understanding of the physics of galaxy formation and evolution in the lowest mass systems.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Our goal is to obtain medium-resolution NIRSpec MSA spectra of a minimum of 35 Pegasus W stars in order to measure the stellar velocity dispersion, with which we will estimate the dark matter halo mass of Pegasus W.

**NIRSpec MSA observations:**
To achieve our target sample size, we will observe three target sets with exposures set to reliably recover velocities of stars 3 magnitudes fainter than the tip of the red giant branch. We will use the G140H/F100LP grism/filter setup that provides medium-resolution spectra in the 0.9-1.8 micron wavelength range. A setup with single shutter slits provides roughly 15 potential Pegasus W stars in one target set.
In five hours of exposure time (20 groups per integration, 2 integrations per exposure, and 6 dither positions, with the NRSIRS2 readout pattern), a S/N over our wavelength range of 4 to 8 per pixel can be obtained for stars at our limiting magnitude. We will obtain 6 dither positions by designing 3 MSA configurations per target set and performing subpixel dithering at the planned position of each configuration to improve sampling of the line spread function.

**NIRCam parallel observations:**
We will observe NIRCam parallel observations in F140M and F277W. An astrometric analysis of the parallels will be used to determine the as-observed pointing and roll of the telescope, in order to attempt to improve upon corrections to the observed velocity based on the planned location of the sources in their shutters.

**NIRCam pre-imaging observations:**
The existing HST imaging will not provide adequate coverage of the MSA for performing target acquisition, due to the fact that all potential Pegasus W members will need to be placed on a single MSA quadrant, thereby substantially offsetting the MSA field of view from the HST imaging for any roll angle. Therefore, we require NIRCam preimaging observations. We will obtain a 3 row by 1 column mosaic with the FULL 3 dither pattern, which will provide the best spatial coverage for the MSA, regardless of assigned roll angle and quadrant on which the MPT finds the best success rate for observing Pegasus W members. We will observe with F115W and F277W, using 4 groups per integration, 2 integrations per exposure, with the BRIGHT1 readout pattern.