---
id: 7201
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Marco Castellano  Co-PIs: Jorge Zavala"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "28.7/0.0"
program_title: "A deep look into the physics of the interstellar medium 360 Myr after the Big Bang"
type: "GO"
---
# 7201 - A deep look into the physics of the interstellar medium 360 Myr after the Big Bang
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7201
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template                                  | Science Target                      |
| :---- | :-------------------------------------------------- | :---------------------------------- |
| 1     | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy (G235H/F170LP PA30) | (18) A2744_NIRSpec R2700 G235 V4 |
| 2     | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy (G395H/F290LP PA30) | (19) A2744_NIRSpec R2700 G395 V4 |

## ABSTRACT

JWST observations have unexpectedly revealed a large number of distant luminous sources whose investigation is directing most observational and theoretical efforts. An outstanding example is provided by the MUV=-20.5 object GHZ2/GLASS-z12 at z=12.34, which has been observed with both NIRSpec PRISM and MIRI LRS, and with ALMA Band 6 and 8. The strength of its UV emission features is exceptional compared to the general high-redshift population and implies extreme ionization conditions. We will observe GHZ2/GLASS-z12 with the G235H/F170LP and G395H/F290LP configurations that cover all its key emission features, and whose resolving power enables to separate all density-sensitive line doublets (NIV, CIII, OII) and cleanly detect faint lines that are hardly measurable at low resolution. Coordinated ALMA Band 8 observations will reach ultra-deep limits on the [OIII]52m transition which provides a powerful density diagnostics in combination with the available [OIII]88m data. The proposed observations will provide firm constraints on the ISM of GHZ2/GLASS-z12 by measuring its electron density across 4 orders of magnitude and from low, to very high-ionization regions. The NIRSpec high-resolution observations will also robustly measure the Hell emission, confirm the highest-redshift detection of the Bowen fluorescence line OIII3133, and put tight constraints on very high-ionization features indicative of AGN emission. ALMA will reach deep limits on its dust continuum emission. This program will thus provide a thorough investigation of the ISM, ionization sources, abundances of an object that has the potential to become one of the best studied targets at very high-redshift.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

- JWST observations:
The program will observe the z=12.34 object GHZ2/GLASS-z12 with the goals of separately detecting the components of the density-sensitive line doublets and constrain faint emission features that are hardly measurable at low resolution.
The program comprises two NIRSpec MOS pointing on the GLASS-JWST NIRCam field, adopting the high-resolution configurations G235H/F170LP and G395H/F290LP.
We adopt readout pattern NRSIRS2, standard 3-shutter slits, a 3-point nodding and a 80-shutter dither along the dispersion direction to bridge the detector gap and obtain continuous coverage of the object. In order to maximise the exposure time, we constrained the MSA planning tool to observe at both dither positions the regions of all emission lines detected in the PRISM. As a result, the Aperture PA ranges needs to be restricted: the requested spectral coverage requires the G235H/F170LP and G395H/290LP configurations to be observed with two slightly different pointings both restricted at 25<PA<32.
Constrained source centering is chosen for an optimal positioning of the object in the slit. Remaining slits will be allocated to a rich set of filler targets, including robust high-redshift candidates, selected from the ultra-deep NIRCam imaging available on the GLASS-JWST ERS field.
The desired sensitivity (SNR>5-10 for the targeted emission lines and components) is reached with 6 exposures (3-nod x 2-dither positions), with 6 integrations of 15 groups per exposure in each of the gratings. The resulting total charged time on NIRSpec is 28.7 hours including overheads.

- ALMA observations:
We require deep [OIII]52 observations to infer a robust [OIII]52/[OIII]88 ratio of GHZ2/GLASS-z12 to accurately constrain its [OIII] electron density. The data will be used in combination with shallow [OIII]52 data from program 2023.A.00017.S and with the OIII]88 detection reported in Zavala et al. 2024. According to the public information from the ALMA Science Archive, the observations from program 2023.A.00017.S have a line sensitivity of 1.5mJy/beam in 10km/s channels. We request 2x deeper observations (0.7mJy/beam in 10km/s channels) that, according to the ALMA cycle-11 Observing Tool, requires 10.5hrs of observing time, including overheads. Since our main goal is to measure the line luminosity without significantly resolving the emission, we request observation with an angular resolution in the range of 0.15-0.7 arcsec (achieved with the configurations C-2 to C-5).