---
id: 7213
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging  NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Yu Cheng"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "23.0/0.0"
program_title: "Probing the disk evolution in an early stage massive protocluster"
type: "GO"
---
# 7213 - Probing the disk evolution in an early stage massive protocluster
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7213
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label          | Observing Template | Science Target           |
| :------------- | :----------------- | :----------------------- |
| NIRCam Imaing  | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) NGC6334 I N NIRCam   |
| MIRI Imaging   | MIRI Imaging       | (2) NGC6334 I N-MIRI     |
| MIRI Imaging   | MIRI Imaging       | (3) NGC6334 I N bkg      |

---

## ABSTRACT

Circumstellar disks are critical to the formation of stars and planets, yet most surveys of these disks focus on nearby, low-mass star-forming regions. This bias may limit our understanding of the more typical environments for planet formation, as most stars form in dense clusters. Extending these studies to distant, massive protoclusters has mainly been restricted by the lack of prior YSO identification and classification from infrared surveys. We propose to utilize the unprecedented sensitivity and resolution of JWST to conduct the first deep census of YSOs in the early-stage massive protocluster NGC6334I(N) and NGC6334I. Our goal is to identify YSOs down to 0.1Lsun for AK < 10 and classify the evolution classes of cluster members with near- to mid-infrared photometry. The survey will yield a sample of over 10^3 YSOs, achieving a depth comparable to infrared surveys in nearby regions. Combined with joint ALMA observation (15au resolution, 0.87~mm) in a pilot sample of over 200 disks, we will measure the distribution of dust masses and radii for disks at different evolutionary phases and search for disk substructures. This will provide new insights regarding how disk evolution unfolds in early-stage massive clusters, with potential implications for our understanding of star and planet formation on a broader scale.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We plan to use a 2×1 NIRCam mosaic and a 6×2 MIRI mosaic to observe the most intense star-forming clump N6334I and N6334I(N) in a 6'×4' FOV. For NIRCam we will observe F115W, F162M, F182M, F200W, F356W, F405N, F444W, F470N via 4 SW+LW pairings. This setup includes wide/medium filters that match existing stellar populations work employing standard Johnson J/H/Ks and Spitzer IRAC 3.6/4.5 m for SED study; and also narrow filters F405N to observe Br as a disk accretion tracer, F470N as an outflow tracer. Five MIRI filters, F770W, F1000W, F1500W, F2100W and F2500W, are chosen to sample the SED of the sources in the longer wavelengths.