---
id: 7230
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging  NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Jonathan Tan  Co-PIs: Ruben Fedriani and Zhi-Yun Li"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "8.1/0.7"
program_title: "Shadows and Dust - MIREX Mapping of a Massive Molecular Filament"
type: "GO"
---
# 7230 - Shadows and Dust - MIREX Mapping of a Massive Molecular Filament
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7230
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label             | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :---------------- | :----------------- | :------------- |
| NIRCAM 1 field    | NIRCam Imaging     | (3) G35        |
| MIRI mosaic       | MIRI Imaging       | (3) G35        |
| MIRI mosaic - BKG | MIRI Imaging       | (4) G35-BKG    |

## ABSTRACT

We propose MIRI and NIRCam imaging of a well-studied Infrared Dark Cloud (IRDC) filament that is one of the best test cases for mid infrared extinction (MIREX) mapping. This project will produce MIREX maps at <0.3 arcsecond resolution, eight times finer than achieved with Spitzer and a unique and powerful probe of the structure of star-forming clouds that only JWST can deliver. The NIR images will detect background stars, whose sight lines will yield pinpoint extinction measurements that help calibrate the MIREX map. Combined analysis of NIR and MIR extinctions will test models of dust grain evolution in a wide range of conditions in molecular gas. The same NIR and MIR images will also be exceptionally sensitive to protostellar and young stellar object (YSO) populations in the cloud, enabling a full characterization of the initial mass function (IMF) in this early-stage massive molecular filament. Key questions that will be answered by this project include:
- What are the structural properties of molecular gas at the onset of massive star and cluster formation?
- What are the natures of the young and forming stellar populations in this filamentary IRDC?
- What is the core mass function (CMF) in this region and how does it relate to the stellar initial mass function (IMF)?
- How does the NIR to MIR extinction law vary as a function of density and temperature and what are the implications for dust grain growth and evolution?

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This program will carry out NIRCam (F115W, F162M, F182M, F200W, F356W, F405N, F470N, F480M) and MIRI (F770W and F2100W) imaging of a filamentary Infrared Dark Cloud (IRDC) to carry out MIR extinction (MIREX) mapping, including NIR extinction calibration, and characterize its protostellar and YSO populations. Coordinated parallels are requested to improve modeling of the background diffuse MIR emission that is crucial for MIREX mapping and to characterize the field star population in these wavebands, which is important for NIR extinction methods in the Galactic plane and for estimating on-source levels of field star contamination.