---
id: 7232
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Roger Cohen"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "33.6/0.0"
program_title: "Orphan Dwarfs: Benchmarking Low-Mass Galaxy Evolution in an Isolated Environment"
type: "GO"
---
# 7232 - Orphan Dwarfs: Benchmarking Low-Mass Galaxy Evolution in an Isolated Environment
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7232
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label      | Observing Template | Science Target      |
| :--------- | :----------------- | :------------------ |
| DDO190     | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) UGC-9240        |
| IC4662     | NIRCam Imaging     | (2) IC-4662         |
| DDO187     | NIRCam Imaging     | (3) UGC-9128        |
| GR8        | NIRCam Imaging     | (4) UGC-8091        |
| KKH86      | NIRCam Imaging     | (5) LEDA-2807150    |
| IC5152     | NIRCam Imaging     | (6) IC-5152         |
| NGC6789    | NIRCam Imaging     | (7) NGC-6789        |

---

## ABSTRACT

Dwarf galaxies, because of their low masses and shallow potential wells, are ideal laboratories to study the processes driving galaxy formation and evolution. However, a detailed picture of dwarf galaxy evolution is currently limited to the Local Group, making it impossible to isolate environmentally-driven effects, which play a role far beyond the host galaxy virial radius (D>1 Mpc) based on both observations and simulations. We propose to isolate the role of environment using a carefully selected control sample of seven isolated "orphan" dwarf galaxies at D>~2 Mpc from the Local Group barycenter. By providing the first set of homogeneous lifetime star formation histories (SFHs) for isolated dwarfs, we will facilitate a direct, empirical comparison to their Local Group counterparts to address the following questions for the first time:
1) Are the SFHs of isolated dwarfs similar to each other, and/or to their less isolated counterparts? We will test the hypothesis that the diversity of dwarf SFHs near the edge of the Local Group is a result of diverse birth conditions, confirming or refuting predictions that isolated dwarfs assemble their mass both later and more uniformly than those in groups.
2) How far does the influence of a massive host extend? We will quantify predicted correlations between mass assembly timescales and isolation out to >3 Mpc.
3) Do isolated dwarfs show "gappy" SFHs, predicted by simulations due to cosmic web stripping by the intergalactic medium? Post-reionization SFH "pauses" are observed for some dwarfs near the edge of the Local Group, but an environmental origin for these features can only be ruled out with a more isolated sample.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We use F090W+F150W for NIRCam SW imaging, providing the best compromise between color baseline and throughput for SFH fitting. S/N requirements are set by the need to reach S/N=10 at 2 mag below the red clump of each target. S/N calculations are based on the per-filter aperture sizes recommended by Savino et al. (2024) based on JWST ERS imaging and photometry using the same dode that we employ (DOLPHOT). Given a range of target distances, our observation strategy changes slightly on a per-target basis. However, in all cases, we require a minimum of 5 groups/integration to mitigate cosmic rays, and a minimum of 4 dithers to mitigate snowball artifacts, changing integrations/exposure (and/or increasing groups/integration or number of dithers) on a per-target basis.

Targets are placed on NIRCam module B (in the corner of chip B4) as recommended to avoid larger areas of bad pixels on Module A close to the target galaxy centers. Where feasible, we use either ORIENT constraints and/or a POS TARG offset to align the NIRCam field of view with the galaxy major axis while avoiding bright foreground stars. For two of the three targets with background variability >5%, we request a background limited constraint of <10%, while for the third (GR8), a background constraint was prohibitive to schedulability, so to allow a POS TARG constraint we imposed no background requirement, noting that the predicted background variability was 6.1%.