---
id: 7240
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Bjorn Emonts  Co-PIs: Pierre Guillard and Matthew Lehnert"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "36.3/0.0"
program_title: "Gas cooling in the molecular CGM of the Spiderweb: in-situ galaxy growth at z=2"
type: "GO"
---
# 7240 - Gas cooling in the molecular CGM of the Spiderweb: in-situ galaxy growth at z=2
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7240
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label   | Observing Template                | Science Target  |
| :------ | :-------------------------------- | :-------------- |
| SW-ON   | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) SW-GALAXY   |
| SW-ON   | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) SW-GALAXY   |
| SW-OFF  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) SW-OFF      |
| SW-OFF  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) SW-OFF      |

---

## ABSTRACT

The evolution of galaxies at Cosmic Noon is linked to complex physical processes that take place across the circum-galactic medium (CGM), such as gas outflows, accretion, and mixing. However, a direct link between the CGM and the stellar growth of galaxies critically depends on identifying cooling processes that trigger the formation of molecular clouds - and ultimately stars - on large scales. Deep HST and ALMA imaging showed that the massive Spiderweb Galaxy at z=2.2 is rapidly forming stars in-situ from cold molecular gas across the CGM. The goals of this JWST proposal are to understand how the CGM can cool down to form stars, and on what scale in the CGM this process happens. JWST/MIRI is uniquely suited to study this through line observations of warm H2, which unambiguously trace the dissipation of kinetic energy from the CGM. We will use this to test the hypothesis that H2 is the dominant coolant in the CGM. Using the MRS, we will image the distribution and kinematics of the pure rotational H2 0-0 lines to study the H2 excitation, energy budget, and cooling rates across the CGM. This will be compared with a suite of molecular lines imaged with ALMA, including new ALMA Band 1 data of CO(1-0), which traces the coldest H2 gas. Commensally, we will obtain deep MIRI wideband imaging, and complement this with existing deep (19 orbits) HST imaging, to derive masses, rates and time-scales of the in-situ star formation. By studying H2 as the main channel for widespread cooling, and comparing cooling and star-formation rates across the CGM, we will gain a comprehensive understanding of the critical role that the multi-phase CGM plays the early evolution of massive galaxies.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will use the MIRI MRS for a single pointing in subbands B and C to obtain a deep exposure that covers the H2 0-0 rotational lines across the cirum-galactic medium (CGM) of the Spiderweb Galaxy in Channels 3 and 4. This setup will also capture the main H2 1-0 and 2-1 ro-vibrational lines, together with other interesting lines and PAH features, in Channels 1 and 2. We require separate background calibration exposures with the MIRI MRS, which we will center such that we will obtain simultaneous deep MIRI imaging of our target with the F560W and F1000W filters, which will complement existing deep HST imaging of the spatially resolved stellar populations across the CGM of the Spiderweb.