---
id: 7251
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/GTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Katherine Bennett"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "43.6/0.0"
program_title: "Does Our Closest M-Dwarf Rocky Neighbor Have An Atmosphere? We Need to Find Out."
type: "GO"
---
# 7251 - Does Our Closest M-Dwarf Rocky Neighbor Have An Atmosphere? We Need to Find Out.
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7251
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label             | Observing Template        | Science Target |
| :---------------- | :------------------------ | :------------- |
| F150W2+F322W2 1   | NIRCam Grism Time Series  | (1) BD-17-588A |
| F150W2+F444W 1    | NIRCam Grism Time Series  | (1) BD-17-588A |
| F150W2+F322W2 2   | NIRCam Grism Time Series  | (1) BD-17-588A |
| F150W2+F444W 2    | NIRCam Grism Time Series  | (1) BD-17-588A |
| F150W2+F322W2 3   | NIRCam Grism Time Series  | (1) BD-17-588A |
| F150W2+F444W 3    | NIRCam Grism Time Series  | (1) BD-17-588A |
| F150W2+F322W2 4   | NIRCam Grism Time Series  | (1) BD-17-588A |
| F150W2+F444W 4    | NIRCam Grism Time Series  | (1) BD-17-588A |

---

## ABSTRACT

Knowing which M-dwarf rocky planets have atmospheres and which do not is critical to our understanding of the prevalence of habitable conditions in the Galaxy. This question is at the forefront of the exoplanet community, yet so far the community has been riddled with inconclusive data and mere elusive hints of atmospheres. We propose a deep (eight transit) and broad (1-5 micron) dive into one of the M-dwarf rocky planets that is most likely to have an atmosphere: LTT 1445Ab. This planet, part of a triplet M-dwarf system 6.9 pc away, is our closest transiting M-dwarf rocky neighbor, and its size (1.3 Earth radii and 2.9 Earth masses) and equilibrium temperature (424 K) hold promise for the presence of an atmosphere. Importantly, recent HST observations reveal a non-flat near-IR spectrum that must be followed up on as soon as possible. Unfortunately, the planet's proximity also means that its bright host star saturates most JWST near-IR observing modes. Now, however, with the new implementation of the NIRCam Short-Wavelength Grism Time Series, we can for the first time observe LTT1445Ab in transmission without risk of saturation. We propose four transits with the F150W2+F322W2 filters and four with F150W2+F444W for complete 1-5 micron coverage of this promising target. We note that LTT1445Ab's hotter and smaller sibling, LTT 1445Ac, is being targeted by the STScI Rocky Worlds DDT Program. By coupling the DDT emission photometry study with our NIRCam transmission spectroscopy study, we can map the presence of atmospheres within a single system. What's more, if LTT 1445Ab does not have an atmosphere, this would have profound implications for M-dwarf habitability in general.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will observe 8 transits of LTT 1445Ab with the NIRCam Grism Time Series template. We require a period/phase constraint on all visits to observe the transits. We require an Aperture PA constraint to prevent spectral contamination by two other stars (LTT1445B and C) in the triple system. Based on estimated separations in 2025, we allow for V3 roll angles to place the B and C stars in the dead space between adjacent A spectra (between each multistripe subarray) on the short-wavelength detectors.

In the 2MASS image, there appear to be two other possible contaminating sources around RA 03 01 51.132 h and Dec -16 36 53.23 degrees. However, upon further investigation, these are artifacts - "ghost" images of LTT1445 - and thus we do not avoid these V3 roll angles.

In each visit, the main science exposure will be 3.89 hours (twice the transit duration, plus approximately 69 minutes to allow some scheduling flexibility and to allow the observatory to settle). We will acquire the target directly, using the F405N+F444W filter combination, RAPID readout pattern, and 3 groups.

For half of the transits, we will use an F322W2+F150W2 configuration: LW F322W2 filter, SW F150W2 filter, SUB40STRIPE1_DHS subarray, DHS3 readout pattern, 7 groups/integration, 3168 integrations. Based on updated ETC calculations, we expect each DHS3 integration with 7 groups to reach 62% of full well (89% of ETC "saturation") and generate a data excess of 6.6 GB per visit (though this is an overestimate now that we know that APT data excess estimates for DHS readouts are overestimated by ~15%). Integrations will have a cadence of 4.42 s.

For the other half of the transits, we will use an F444W+F150W2 configuration: LW F444W filter, SW F150W2 filter, SUB40STRIPE1_DHS subarray, DHS3 readout pattern, 8 groups/integration, 2757 integrations. Based on updated ETC calculations, We expect each DHS3 integration with 8 groups to reach 58% of full well (83% of ETC "saturation") and generate a data excess of 6.1 GB per visit (again, this is an overestimate). Integrations will have a cadence of 5.08 s.