---
id: 7255
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRISS/SOSS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Kevin Stevenson  Co-PIs: Joshua Lothringer"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "52.2/0.0"
program_title: "A Day In The Life of KELT-9b"
type: "GO"
---
# 7255 - A Day In The Life of KELT-9b
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7255
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label          | Observing Template                      | Science Target |
| :------------- | :-------------------------------------- | :------------- |
| Phase Curve pt1 | NIRISS Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy | (1) KELT-9     |
| Phase Curve pt2 | NIRISS Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy | (1) KELT-9     |

---

## ABSTRACT

KELT-9b is, by far, the hottest known exoplanet. With a dayside temperature of ~4,500 K, most molecules have dissociated into their constituent atoms. Rather surprisingly, the dayside HST emission spectrum favors an anomalously high metallicity and excessive H-, TiO, VO, and/or FeH. While metal hydrides and H- are reasonable absorbers for KELT-9b within an equilibrium chemistry framework, the presence of TiO or VO cannot be explained without invoking totally unexpected disequilibrium processes, such as horizontal quenching from the planet's nightside. The alternative (and unsatisfying) solution is that the observed dayside features are due to the presence of an unknown absorber. Without a suitable explanation for this benchmark ultra-hot Jupiter, we propose for JWST to observe a full-orbit phase curve of KELT-9b.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Our program asks two overarching science questions that can be readily answered using NIRISS/SOSS spectroscopy: (1) Is the relatively efficient redistribution of heat on ultra-hot Jupiters due to hydrogen recombination? (2) Does the emission spectrum of KELT-9b show evidence of complex molecular abundances as a function of longitude? By combining information from all phases, we will provide robust constraints on the atmospheric metallicity and phase-resolved abundances of KELT-9b. The lessons learned from the hottest of hot Jupiters will shed light on the relative importance of various atmospheric processes and timescales within the atmospheres of the dozens of coolers planets with previous phase curve observations.

**OBSERVING DESCRIPTION**
This is a time-series observation of an ultra-hot Jupiter, KELT-9b, using NIRISS/SOSS. We require 52 hours (including overheads) to obtain a full-orbit phase curve. The observation is split into two exposures that have been linked as non-interruptable and in sequence. We use the SUBSTRIP96 subarray with 3 groups/integration in order to observe this bright target from 0.8 - 2.8 microns. Using the SUBSTRIP256 mode would sature the detector at the wavelengths needed for our science case. We used PandExo to demonstrate that we can achieve the necessary precision to achieve our science goals.

In the APT exposure setup, we include a short first exposure and an F277W exposure. The former is included in the event there is a slight shift in the pupil wheel position between the first and second exposure. The latter isolates the first-order spectrum in the region where the first and second orders overlap on the detector.