---
id: 7268
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Evert Nasedkin"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "5.1/0.0"
program_title: "Easing the Tension: Near-Infrared Spectroscopy of HR 8799 b,c,d,e"
type: "GO"
---
# 7268 - Easing the Tension: Near-Infrared Spectroscopy of HR 8799 b,c,d,e
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7268
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                       | Observing Template       | Science Target               |
| :-------------------------- | :----------------------- | :--------------------------- |
| NIRSpec-IFU-HR8799-Rolll    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) HR-8799                  |
| NIRSpec-IFU-HR8799-Roll2    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) HR-8799                  |
| NIRSpec-IFU-PSF-Ref         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (2) HD-218261-PSF-Reference  |

---

## ABSTRACT

HR 8799 is the most iconic of the directly imaged exoplanetary systems. With four planets orbiting a single host star, it offers both a unique opportunity for comparative exoplanetology, and insight into the early history of a scaled-up version of our own solar system. Even with nearly two decades of study, there remains tension in both measurements of the atmospheric properties of the planets and uncertainty into how this peculiar system formed. Ground-based observations produce incompatible spectroscopic measurements due to contamination from atmospheric turbulence and differences in instrumental calibration, making interpretation of the planetary spectra difficult. We therefore propose to obtain high SNR observations using NIRSpec/G140H and G235H, resolving the tension between the different spectroscopic observations, as well as between atmospheric measurements and predictions from formation models. While other JWST programs will trace the disequilibrium chemistry and cloud properties in the mid-infrared, this near-infrared window is critical to inferring basic properties such as the bolometric luminosity, metallicity, surface gravity, and carbon-to-oxygen number ratio. Without these parameters, interpretation of the existing JWST spectra will be biased, as they will rely on existing ground-based measurements, or model-dependent predictions of the near-infrared spectra. The HR 8799 planets are a benchmark system for direct imaging, but it is of fundamental importance that such a benchmark has reliable measurements, which can only be obtained through these JWST observations.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

HR 8799 is a benchmark system for directly imaged exoplanets, consisting of four giant planets orbiting a single host star. This system has seen extensive characterisation, however there remains significant tension between both ground-based spectra obtained with different instruments and between different measurements of atmospheric properties. We therefore propose to measure the near-infrared spectra of the four companions using NIRSpec G140H and G235H, which cover critical wavelength regions for measuring fundamental atmospheric properties of surface gravity, metallicity, carbon-to-oxygen number ratio, as well as the peak of the spectral energy distribution for the planets. This is a high-contrast observation, and we will therefore obtain a reference PSF observation of HD 21861 as well (the same reference as used in previous JWST observations of this system). Due to the brightness of the host star, saturation is unavoidable and our observing strategy reflects the need to both minimise saturation and obtain reasonable SNR for each of the companions.