---
id: 7306
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Raghvendra Sahai"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "28.9/0.0"
program_title: "The Formation of Crystalline Silicate Dust -- Testbed Observations of post-AGB Stars with JWST"
type: "GO"
---
# 7306 - The Formation of Crystalline Silicate Dust -- Testbed Observations of post-AGB Stars with JWST
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7306
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template            | Science Target          |
| :---- | :---------------------------- | :---------------------- |
|       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) IRAS10197-5750      |
|       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (10) IRAS10197-5750-SKY |
|       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) IRAS14562-5406      |
|       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (11) IRAS14562-5406-SKY |
|       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) IRAS16279-4757      |
|       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (12) IRAS16279-4757-SKY |
|       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (5) IRAS16342-3814      |
|       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (13) IRAS16342-3814-SKY |
|       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (7) IRAS17047-5650      |
|       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (14) IRAS17047-5650-SKY |
|       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (16) HD-161796         |
|       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (17) HD-161796-SKY     |

*(Note: The "Label" column in the provided table is empty for all entries.)*

---

## ABSTRACT

Silicate dust is a very important ingredient of the cosmic life cycle of matter. It has been identified in very diverse environments, ranging from objects in the Solar System to luminous quasars. It is a key constituent of the dust in the interstellar medium of most galaxies, and generally dominates their spectral energy distributions (SEDs). Cosmic silicates have generally been found in an amorphous state through broad and structureless bands at 10 and 18 micron, and their origin is well understood. They are believed to be generated in the winds of ~1-8 Msun (and more massive) stars and then ejected into the ambient interstellar medium. In addition, a small but significant fraction (~10% by mass) of cosmic silicates are found to be crystalline, detected through a forest of distinct solid-state features. However, despite their ubiquitous presence in and profound influence on the spectra of an extensive and diverse astrophysical population, how crystalline silicate grains form remains one of the most elusive puzzles in our understanding of dust in the Universe. We therefore propose JWST/MRS observations of a sample of pre-planetary nebulae and young planetary nebulae to resolve this puzzle, as these represent the best laboratories for studying the genesis of crystalline silicate because of their (a) well-defined spatially-resolved density structures and (b) their well-defined radiation environments. Both of these factors are believed to play important roles in the the formation and evolution of crystalline silicates, and our proposed survey will allow us to assess the role of each independently.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Our primary goal is to map the emission from crystalline silicate bands as a function of density and radiation in 6 PPNe and young PNe. We will use the MIRI/MRS to obtain spectra of our objects in the 5-28 micron region, using all three grating positions for MRS spectroscopy and the FAST readout pattern throughout. The region of 5-28 micron is especially crucial to understanding the chemistry and spectral characteristics of our sources as it is the region covering the crystalline silicate bands and the 10 and 18 micron amorphous silicate bands, the region of prominent PAH emission, and numerous H recombination and molecular H2 rotational lines. We used WISE magnitudes (3.6-22 micron) and ISO/SWS spectra and mid-IR imaging of our targets to estimate the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) and the feasibility of the observations. We used the mid-IR images to estimate the intensity in the bright regions (which is generally the waist/torus) as a fraction of the total flux (derived from the spectra) for estimating the required exposure times using the ETC. The exposure times (number of groups and number of dithers) were decided based on the considerations that we achieve a SNR>~150 in the 18-25 micron region, where some of the most important crystalline silicate features are located, as this will allow us to detect the emission in the region fainter by at least a factor 5 (since we can use spatial averaging for the fainter regions that are much more spatially extended than the bright waist).

We note that there is a very steep rise of the flux with wavelength from ~5 to ~25 micron in the SEDs of all our sources, hence in order to avoid saturation at the long wavelength end (~24 micron), we have used appropriately smaller values for Groups/Int. For example, for our brightest source, HD 161796, we had to set this to the lowest value, 2.

We will use a 4-point dither pattern because it will produce the best possible spectral resolution, and also better sample the point-spread function and enable improved spectral extraction. We will use a 2 x 2 mosaic for each target to ensure that the full nebula is adequately imaged (especially important for the even the shortest wavelength, where the field-of-view is smaller). We also include observations of the background sky at a nearby location offset from each source by about 3 arcmin.