---
id: 7313
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Kadin Worthen  Co-PIs: Christine Chen"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "7.2/0.0"
program_title: "Determining the Origin of the Gas in the 49 Ceti Debris Disk"
type: "GO"
---
# 7313 - Determining the Origin of the Gas in the 49 Ceti Debris Disk
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7313
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                        | Observing Template       | Science Target               |
| :--------------------------- | :----------------------- | :--------------------------- |
| (empty for observation 1)    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) -49-Cet                  |
| (empty for observation 2)    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (3) -48-Cet-PSF-reference    |

## ABSTRACT

Millimeter observations of debris disks have revealed that many are surprisingly gas rich in molecular CO. The origin of this gas is debated, as it could be leftover primordial gas from the parent protoplanetary disk, or it could be of a secondary origin where the destruction and outgassing of volatile rich minor bodies releases CO into the circumstellar environment. Answering this question on the gas origin is key to understanding this late stage of planet formation. The key prediction that distinguishes primordial versus secondary gas is that primordial gas is dominated compositionally by H2, which can shield the CO to the age of the system if it is dense enough in the disk surface. 49 Ceti is a 40 Myr old star that is host to a large reservoir of CO detected with ALMA; however, the ALMA observations have not determined the origin of the gas in this system. In Cycle 1, astronomers used the NIRSpec IFU PRISM mode to search for water ice in this system, but surprisingly discovered fluorescent CO emission that traces the upper most surface level of this gas disk. Here we propose to follow up this discovery but at the highest NIRSpec IFU spectral resolution. This will enable the measurement of each individual ro-vibrational line to determine the level populations of each rotational level of CO in the disk surface layer. We will use the rotational level populations to determine the H2 density in the disk surface with a non-LTE model, thus determining the origin of the gas. This proposal will serve as a pathfinder that demonstrates that the NIRSpec IFU can determine the H2 content in these disks surfaces and ultimately unveil the origin of the gas in debris disks.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to obtain NIRSpec IFU G395H mode observations of the 49 Ceti debris disk to follow up the discovery of fluorescent CO emission lines from the NIRSpec IFU PRISM mode in Cycle 1. The higher spectral resolution data will enable the measurement of the fractional rotational populations of CO that is present in the upper most disk surface layer. This measurement, along with a non-LTE model, will constrain the H2 density in the disk surface layer which will in turn reveal if the H2 content is large enough to shield the gas to the 40 Myr age of the system. If the H2 density is not large enough, then this will favor a secondary origin of the CO from the release of volatiles from minor bodies in the system. This program will serve as a pathfinder in demonstrating that fluorescent CO emission detected with NIRSpec can be used to constrain the H2 density in these gas-rich disk surfaces for the first time and ultimately determine if the gas is primordial or of secondary origin.

We will observe a PSF reference star immediately after 49 Ceti in order to facilitate PSF subtraction and remove the stellar PSF. This will be a necessary step in detecting the faint CO emission lines next to the bright host star. We will include a 9-point dither pattern to best reconstruct the PSF for the optimal PSF subtraction performance.