---
id: 7321
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging  NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Sam Rose"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "6.0/0.0"
program_title: "SN 2008S and NGC 300 2008-OT: Are They Terminal Electron Capture Supernovae?"
type: "GO"
---
# 7321 - SN 2008S and NGC 300 2008-OT: Are They Terminal Electron Capture Supernovae?
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7321
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
**1. List of Labels, Observing Template, and Science Targets from the OBSERVATIONS table:**

| Folder Observation | Label | Observing Template | Science Target        |
| :----------------- | :---- | :----------------- | :-------------------- |
| SN2008S            |       |                    |                       |
| NGC300-2008OT      |       |                    |                       |
| 3                  |       | MIRI Imaging       | (2) NGC-300-OT2008-1  |
| 4                  |       | NIRCam Imaging     | (2) NGC-300-OT2008-1  |

---

## ABSTRACT

SN 2008S and NGC 300 2008-OT are the archetypical members of a class of highly reddened transients called intermediate luminosity red transients (ILRTs). All observed ILRT progenitors, including the progenitors of SN 2008S and NGC 300 2008-OT, are heavily obscured by circumstellar dust and the transients themselves are also very dusty. It is unknown what physical mechanisms produce ILRTs. One proposed explanation for ILRTs is that they are electron capture supernovae (ECSNe) resulting from the core-collapse of eight to ten solar mass super asymptotic branch stars (SAGB). We propose to obtain very late time infrared photometry of SN 2008S and NGC 300 2008-OT to investigate whether or not ILRTs have a luminous remnant. With the sensitivity of JWST in the infrared we are able to detect dust-obscured luminous remnants down to 10% the luminosity of their progenitors. No detection would confirm that ILRTs are terminal ECSNe.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We are proposing to obtain very late-time photometry for SN 2008S and NGC 300 2008-OT (the two archetypical intermediate luminosity red transients) with MIRI and NIRCam in 8 filters ranging in wavelength from 1-21 microns. In total, including overheads, we are requesting 11.9 hours of JWST time.