---
id: 7335
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Francesco D'Eugenio  Co-PIs: Kevin Hainline"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "14.2/0.0"
program_title: "Forever Blowing Bubbles: What Powers a 24-kpc Ionized Gas Nebula Around a Normal Galaxy at z=6?"
type: "GO"
---
# 7335 - Forever Blowing Bubbles: What Powers a 24-kpc Ionized Gas Nebula Around a Normal Galaxy at z=6?
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7335
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target        |
| :---- | :----------------- | :-------------------- |
|       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) GS-53.00804-27.85477 |
|       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) GS-53.00804-27.85477 |

---

## ABSTRACT

It is thought that powerful galactic outflows may be responsible for disrupting and quenching star formation in massive galaxies at high redshift. This proposal will explore outflows in ID518794, a quenching galaxy hosting a 24 kpc extended [OIII] emission nebula at z = 6. This shell-like nebula, the most extended observed across the GOODS extragalactic fields, is extraordinary in size and luminosity (2 10^10 LSun), but is even more notable since it is centered not around a massive quasar, but rather a more typical (10^10 Msun) galaxy with evidence of a recent drop in star-formation rate. This unique system is at least 5-10 times more rare than quiescent galaxies at z = 4-5, and we may be observing a short-lived phase of a powerful gas outflow just before the onset of long-term quenching. To test this hypothesis, we seek to understand whether the giant nebula is an outflow, an AGN ionization echo (a "voorwerp"), or tidally stripped material, and then to confirm the quenching nature of the central galaxy. To achieve these goals, we propose NIRSpec/IFS observations with the prism and g395h dispersers to
1) investigate the star-formation history and stellar-population properties of the central galaxy
2) search for evidence of an active galactic nucleus in ID518794 and
3) measure the kinematics, chemistry and physical conditions of the gas, in both the host galaxy and the giant nebula.
If confirmed to host a massive, 24-kpc outflow, this system may help to explain how AGNs are able to quench massive galaxies in the first 1-2 billion years after the Big Bang.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This proposal aims to obtain NIRSpec/IFS spatially resolved spectroscopy in clear/prism (3 hours) and f290lp/g395h (7.5 hours).
The targets are a massive z=6 galaxy (10.2 dex Msun) and its extended, surrounding nebula (4 arcsec).
To ensure observing the nebula in a single (dithered) NIRSpec/IFS pointing, we further require target acquisition.
To optimize telescope usage, we designed the two observations to be consecutive, i.e. sharing the same target acquisition. This further constrains the two observing setups to have the same aperture angle, which greatly simplifies the analysis, due to the NIRSpec/IFS PSF being elliptical and aligned with the aperture angle.