---
id: 7336
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/WFSS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Fengwu Sun"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "12.2/0.0"
program_title: "Commission a new R~2500 `IFU` on JWST: Calibrating second-order spectra of NIRCam/WFSS through Hubble Ultra Deep Field"
type: "GO, Calibration"
---
# 7336 - Commission a new R~2500 `IFU` on JWST: Calibrating second-order spectra of NIRCam/WFSS through Hubble Ultra Deep Field
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7336
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label   | Observing Template                 | Science Target       |
| :------ | :--------------------------------- | :------------------- |
| Grism R | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (1) HUDF-WFSS-Center |
| Grism C | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (1) HUDF-WFSS-Center |

## ABSTRACT

All NIRCam WFSS scientific results so far are based on first-order spectra, mostly obtained at 3-5 micron. However, NIRCam can also obtain second-order spectroscopy at 2.4-3.0 micron, reaching a medium-high spectral resolution of R~2500. Compared with first-order, second-order spectroscopy takes advantage of lower sky background (because of twice higher R) and comparable throughput (~30%). This could offer highly efficient emission-line spectroscopy over ~3-arcmin^2 field of FoV, extremely powerful for spatially resolving galaxy kinematics out to z~5 as a "poor-man's IFU".

Archival data are insufficient for the calibration of NIRCam WFSS second-order spectroscopy. Only one wavelength calibrator has been observed with very limited dither positions, leaving enormous extrapolation error across the whole FoV.

We propose to fully calibrate the second-order slitless spectroscopy function of NIRCam WFSS. This will be achieved by observing the Hubble Ultra Deep Field (HUDF) through the F277W filter and all four module x grism combinations. HUDF has the highest surface density of accurate spectroscopic redshifts thanks to decades of multi-wavelength observations. We will detect second-order emission lines from galaxies at z~0-5 with known redshifts and wavelengths, providing accurate wavelength calibration and sensitivity characterization of second-order spectroscopy to the broader JWST user community. Scientifically, F277W grism is only missing piece for JWST near-IR spectroscopic campaigns in HUDF over Cycle 1-3. The request observation will enhance the JWST legacy in HUDF, opening a new window for wide-field galaxy kinematics survey around and beyond cosmic noon.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will obtain NIRCam wide-field slitless spectroscopic (WFSS) observations of the Hubble Ultra Deep Field with F277W as the long-wavelength (LW) filter. We will use grism R in obsnum 1, and grism C in obsnum 2.

The primary technical goal of the proposal is to calibrate the 2nd-order spectra of NIRCam/WFSS through F277W filter and all four available grisms (module A / B x grism R / C). The targeted field (Hubble Ultra Deep Field; HUDF) is known for the richness of deep imaging and spectroscopic coverage through multiple ground-based and space telescopes at all wavelength. Specifically, deep HST and JWST imaging data with nearly all major instruments and filters have been obtained for this field, and thousands of accurate spectroscopic redshifts have been obtained through ground-based multiple-object spectroscopy, integral field spectroscopy (notably VLT/MUSE, the MUSE-HUDF survey; Bacon et al. 2017, 2023), JWST NIRSpec observations (primarily through JADES; Eisenstein et al. 2023, Bunker et al. 2023), NIRISS/WFSS observations (through NGDeep survey; Pirzkal et al. 2024), and NIRCam/WFSS observations (through FRESCO using F444W filter, Oesch et al. 2023; GTO-4549 using F356W filter, Rieke et al.).

This program will obtain NIRCam WFSS observation using F277W filter, which is the only missing piece for complete JWST near-infrared spectroscopic investigations in the iconic Hubble Ultra Deep Field.

We will employ 2-integration x 7-group MEDIUM8 readout for all grism exposures, and the exposure time will be 1471 s per dither position. This is to maximize the depth and number of emission-line detections at each dither position without the concern that the data will be overwhelmed by cosmic rays (typically when t_exp > 1000 s per each integration). We request (1) two rows of mosaics with Grism R, covering the central 2x2 arcmin^2 of HUDF for full F277W 1st-order spectroscopy, and (2) two columns of mosaics with Grism C, covering two (nearly) complete 2x2 arcmin^2 regions along the NE / SW edges of HUDF. We request 4 INTRAMODULEX dithers with each pointing to map out the 2nd-order wavelength calibration functions across the full NIRCam FoV, and ensure the quality and fidelity of co-added spectroscopic data products.

For better calibration purpose, we will obtain F200W imaging observation at the same time as the F277W grism observation. This is because F200W is one of the most commonly used filters at the same time of grism observations (e.g., used by Cycle-1 programs ASPIRE, EIGER, IceAge and Cycle-3 programs COSMOS-3D and NEXUS). The use of same F200W filter will (1) remove the concern of filter-introduced offset for wavelength calibration, and (2) offer time-domain value for the studies of supernovae and AGN in the HUDF region.

With the relatively shallow direct imaging observations after the grism exposures, we plan to use F150W and F250M filter in the short / long-wavelength channel, respectively. F150W data will also offer time-domain value, characterizing the colors of detected transients. F250M imaging data will be useful for the selection of galaxies that could yield emission-line detections at 2.4-2.6 micron, where the grism throughput peaks for 2nd-order spectra. The field has deep NIRCam imaging data at 1-5 micron through JADES including F277W filter, allowing us to detect any galaxy for which we expect a 5-sigma emission-line detection with the grism exposure.

The observations will be obtained at similar V3 PA of those with GTO-1180, NIRCam imaging observation of HUDF.