---
id: 7340
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Coronagraphy"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Stefano Facchini  Co-PIs: Gabriele Cugno"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "8.8/0.0"
program_title: "A NIRCam - MIRI - ALMA synergy to constrain planet formation at large orbital separations"
type: "GO"
---
# 7340 - A NIRCam - MIRI - ALMA synergy to constrain planet formation at large orbital separations
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7340
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label              | Observing Template          | Science Target               |
| :----------------- | :-------------------------- | :--------------------------- |
| AS209 Coro         | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging  | (1) EM-AS-209                |
| AS209 Coro         | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging  | (1) EM-AS-209                |
| AS209_BACKGROUND   | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging  | (2) EM-AS-209-BACKGROUND     |
| Ref - Coro         | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging  | (6) -24-Sco                  |
| Background - Ref   | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging  | (7) Ref-BACKGROUND           |

---

## ABSTRACT

Observations of different tracers by ALMA reveal striking evidence for the presence of one protoplanet candidate in the outer disk of AS 209, with both kinematic and chemical localised signatures of a massive accreting body. Available Cycle 1 JWST/NIRCam data do not detect thermal emission from the putative protoplanet, suggesting that the planet is either cold, or that radiative reprocessing by circumstellar and circumplanetary dust is still significant at 4.1 um. We propose to observe the AS 209 system with the MIRI coronagraphic instrument at 10.6 um to reach the following goals: a) confirm or discard the protoplanet nature of the candidate; b) mark the initial steps in discerning different planet formation models; c) empirically determine a correlation between the luminosity of growing protoplanets and chemical hotspots in a disk; d) benchmark kinematic searches of protoplanets. In synergy with the ALMA data, the proposed JWST/MIRI observations will provide the sorely needed proof of the strong connection between small anomalies in the gas kinematics and chemical properties in a protoplanetary disk and an embedded forming planet. Additionally, comparative observations in both the NIR and the MIR regimes will clarify the wavelength range where the SED of embedded protoplanets affected by circumplanetary dust peaks. The comparison of the NIRCam and MIRI observations will also be crucial in informing on the best strategy to observe protoplanets in disks in the next JWST cycles.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Here, we aim to directly detect the protoplanet candidate embedded in the protoplanetary disk surrounding AS209. Based on previous ALMA detections with different tracers (13CO, HCO+, H2CO), the planet has been identified 1.4" ~south of the star. These proposed MIRI observations have been designed to detect a very cold (~300-500 K) and extincted (A_v=40 mag) objects at a 5 sigma significance in only ~2 hours of on-source time. The observations will be compared to the ancillary NIRCam non-detection at 4 micron to provide first constraints of the planet luminosity and extinction from circumplanetary dust. We plan to use the 4-quadrant-phase-mask coronagraph coupled to the F1065C filter to reach the highest possible contrast. Also, we plan to observe the reference star HD 150922, which was chosen because of its vicinity to the target and its brightness. For reference star observations we plan to use the 9-POINT-SMALL-GRID dithering to maximize the achieved contrast, crucial to detect the planet. We include a background observation of both science target and reference star to mitigate the glow-stick effect. We perform the background observations in two opposite quadrants, following the specific guidelines by STScI for Cycle 4 for our requested observing mode.