---
id: 7390
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Yunjing Wu  Co-PIs: Zheng Cai and Fengwu Sun"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "26.2/0.0"
program_title: "Probing Pair-Instability Supernovae through the Triply-lensed MACS0647-JD at z=10.17"
type: "GO"
---
# 7390 - Probing Pair-Instability Supernovae through the Triply-lensed MACS0647-JD at z=10.17
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7390
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template            | Science Target       |
| :---- | :---------------------------- | :------------------- |
| C1    | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (1) MACS0647 JD cat |

---

## ABSTRACT

Stars with initial masses of 140-300 Msun are predicted to undergo the pair instability stage and explode as supernove (PISNe). PISNe will significantly enrich the interstellar medium (ISM) with iron and prevent the formation of black hole seeds. As a cornerstone of stellar evolution theory, PISNe have been the focus for decades of searches in local Universe. Yet, no PISN has been conclusively identified at high redshift. JWST is creating unprecedented opportunities by pushing the redshift frontier to z>10. Only ~400 Myr after the Big Bang, these infant galaxies, with star formation <40 Myr, provide the best laboratories for hunting PISNe. The first hints of PISNe have been tested in GNz11; however, the AGN nature of GNz11 makes it hard to draw any definitive conclusions. Among spectroscopically confirmed galaxies at z > 10, MACS0647-JD at z = 10.2, the brightest one without any AGN signature, is the ideal target for a pilot search.

In this proposal, we aim to directly detect iron from PISNe through the FeIII absorption (the 1978-index) in the triply-lensed galaxy MACS0647-JD. Using NIRSpec/MOS mode, we can observe all three images of this galaxy simultaneously to reach the continuum signal-to-noise ratio of ~8. With the archival MIRI data, MACS0647-JD has the first direct-measured Oxygen abundance at z>10. The derived [O/Fe] can examine the existence of PISNe after comparing it with that from theoretical models. Additionally, the lensing effect enables us to probe intervening cold gas at z > 8 for the first time along the sightline. Further, thanks to the multiplexing capabilities of MSA, we will have sufficient fillers for investing in their stellar and ISM properties.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We proposed the deep exposures with NIRSpec MSA in the MACS0647 cluster field, and our primary targets are three images of the triply-lensed galaxy JD. We only have one single pointing to target the three images of JD TOGETHER.

We note that, to include three images together and cover the existing NIRCam footprint, these proposed PA will be 232 degrees.

We include a target list for three images of JD primarily. We also have a filler catalog (having accurate phot-z) from archival HST and JWST/NIRCam observations (GO 1433, Coe, private communication).