---
id: 7396
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Elizabeth Tarantino"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "41.8/0.0"
program_title: "Exploring the Last Watering Hole of Low Metallicity PAH Emission: Deep Spectroscopic Observations of Sextans A"
type: "GO"
---
# 7396 - Exploring the Last Watering Hole of Low Metallicity PAH Emission: Deep Spectroscopic Observations of Sextans A
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7396
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                      | Observing Template                     | Science Target             |
| :------------------------- | :------------------------------------- | :------------------------- |
| MIRI MRS-A                 | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (1) SexA_PAH-MRS           |
| MIRI MRS-B                 | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (1) SexA_PAH-MRS           |
| MIRI MRS-C                 | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (1) SexA_PAH-MRS           |
| MIRI MRS Backgroun d-A     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (2) SexA_PAH-MRS_BKGR      |
| MIRI MRS Backgroun d-B     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (2) SexA_PAH-MRS_BKGR      |
| MIRI MRS Backgroun d-C     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (2) SexA_PAH-MRS_BKGR      |
| NIRSpec                    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy               | (3) SexA_PAH-NIRSpec       |
| NIRSpec Background         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy               | (4) SexA_PAH-NIRSpec_BKGR  |

---

## ABSTRACT

In typical star-forming galaxies, the mid-infrared (MIR) spectrum is dominated by emission from Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbons (PAHs), the smallest dust grains found in the interstellar medium (ISM). In regions with low metallicities, the fraction of PAHs in the ISM undergoes a significant decline. Recent JWST photometric observations of the dwarf galaxy Sextans A, however, reveal a remarkable detection of PAHs in a 7% solar metallicity environment, making it the lowest metallicty detection of PAHs to date. We propose deep MIRI MRS and NIRSpec IFU observations on the brightest PAH emitting clump found through imaging. With full spectral coverage across the 3-18 micron range, we will identify PAH features that were impossible to see through photometry alone, determine the low metallicity PAH properties through band ratios, constrain the molecular gas environment near the PAHs with the H2 rotational transitions accessible only through spectroscopy, and create the low metallicity MIR spectroscopic template for future JWST observations and models. The low metallicity MIR spectrum combined with ancillary data (HST, MUSE, ALMA, and VLA) will uniquely constrain the lifecycle of the PAHs, which is vital for understanding their importance at high redshift where metallicities are much lower than solar. Sextans A is the ideal galaxy to provide these constraints, as it is the only galaxy with metallicity less than 10% solar that has a robust detection of PAHs and its proximity allows for a detailed, resolved study of PAHs. JWST is the only telescope suitable for these observations due to its superior sensitivity, high spatial resolution, and coverage of the MIR wavelengths.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

**MIRI MRS**
We will observe the bright PAH-emitting region in Sextans A with full spectral coverage of the MRS. Due to the data volume limits, we use the SLOWR1 readout for MRS and 20 groups per integration (400 s integrations) to limit cosmic ray contamination. We request 8 integrations per exposure and use the 4-point dither optimized for extended sources, leading to an exposure time of 4.5 hours for each of the three spectral settings. We request dedicated background observations using identical detector settings as is recommended in the documentation for faint, extended sources. The long integration time (> 24 hours) prohibit the background to be scheduled uninterruptible with the science observations. Instead, we split each MRS observation into separate SHORT (A), MEDIUM (B), and LONG (C) visits that are each grouped with an associated background observation in order to facilitate schedulability. These visits are grouped within seven days of each other to ensure negligible difference in the position angle (PA).

We will use the MRS simultaneous MIRI imaging mode to acquire observations of the F2100W filter during the MRS dedicated background ("off") observations by setting the primary channel as the IMAGER, as is recommended in the documentation. To ensure the sky background does not saturate with the F2100W integration, we choose the FASTR1 readout pattern and use 29 groups per integration, 40 integrations per group, and 4 dithers, leading to an exposure time of 3.8 hours. The simultaneous imaging for MRS "on" is set to the F560W, F770W, and F1000W filters to improve the astrometry of the MRS field.

**NIRSpec IFU**
As recommended in the JWST documentation, we use the NRSIRS2 readout mode which is optimized for long exposure IFU observations of faint targets and minimizes data volume. We request 15 groups per integration, 2 integrations, and use the 4-POINT-DITHER for extended sources for a total of 2.5 hours. To minimize the contribution of leakage from the MSA, we will acquire a leakcal exposure for the first dither. Due to the faint and extended nature of the PAH emission, we request a dedicated background observation that is non-interruptable with the science observations and uses identical detector settings.

**Target Acquisition**
The MRS and NIRSpec field of view will cover the faint, extended PAH emission and are not suitable for TAQ. Instead, existing MIRI and NIRCam imaging is used to find offset TAQ sources. We identify a source within 3" of the NIRSpec field of view that provides an SNR 30 in the F110W filter. For MRS, we find a bright star 8" away from the MRS pointing (within the recommended visit splitting maximum of 15") that achieves an SNR 30 using the F560W filter.

**Special Requirements**
We request that the MRS observations be taken in a low background as the SNR changes >25% between high and low backgrounds. We also require each visit to be uninterruptible with its associated background and group all visits to occur within 7 days to minimize the impact of PA changes. For NIRSpec, we request that the background and science observations are non-interruptable and require the PA to be within 75--125 to ensure the MSA is not on a bright source.