---
id: 7404
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/WFSS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Rohan Naidu  Co-PIs: John Chisholm and Jorryt Matthee"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "49.2/0.0"
program_title: "How I wonder what you are -- do JWST's Little Red Dots twinkle? Testing broad-line and continuum variability on week, month, and six-month timescales"
type: "GO"
---
# 7404 - How I wonder what you are -- do JWST's Little Red Dots twinkle? Testing broad-line and continuum variability on week, month, and six-month timescales
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7404
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label               | Observing Template                  | Science Target      |
| :------------------ | :---------------------------------- | :------------------ |
| 1 NIRCam Grism GN   | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (1) GOODS-N-CENTER |
| 2 NIRCam Grism GN   | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (1) GOODS-N-CENTER |
| 3 NIRCam Grism GN   | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (1) GOODS-N-CENTER |

---

## ABSTRACT

JWST's ubiquitous Little Red Dots (LRDs) have been called the "biggest discovery in physics in 2023", and yet there is little consensus about what these compact, reddened objects with broad Balmer lines at z>5 actually are. If they are a new class of obscured AGN, what explains their peculiar SEDs, weak x-rays, and self- absorption in Balmer(!) lines? Do their apparent Balmer breaks mean they are massive galaxies that may one day end up as dense cores of ellipticals? Even with large samples and spectra in hand, no unified model is in sight -- we desperately need independent constraints.

Here we propose TWINKLE, JWST's first systematic LRD monitoring campaign. AGN are variable on all observed timescales, whereas star-forming galaxies are steady, thereby allowing us to disentangle the LRD SED. We will revisit, thrice, the very first spectroscopic sample reported in Cycle 1 and exploit this long baseline to probe sustained changes as well as short-term stochasticity. With simultaneous NIRCam grism+imaging (the same setup as Cycle 1) we will directly probe the mysterious Balmer lines, as well as the perplexing rest-UV to optical continuum. Our efficient visits capturing 9 LRDs clustered on-sky in the GOODS-North legacy field are expected to guarantee at least 1 source with a >15% flux change in the AGN scenario, delivering a much needed breakthrough in the LRD puzzle.

TWINKLE will collect grism spectra for every single source in its field of view from z~0-8, doubling the depth of the Cycle 1 data in a critical JWST legacy field, while piloting a unique spectroscopic time-domain survey that may reveal phenomena such as peculiar high-z supernovae and LRDs coming to life.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This is a monitoring campaign that will visit the GOODS-N field thrice across this cycle to collect grism spectra of broad Balmer lines in the objects of interest (Little Red Dots), and simultaneously image them in three different filters (F444W, i.e., the direct image; and F210M+F182M simultaneous to the grism exposures). We wish to seek differences with respect to earlier existing data from GO 1895, and so we maintain our setup overall as close to that program as possible. We will mosaic the entire GOODS-N field covered by GO 1895 thrice across the cycle, but the key difference is we do this with the F410M medium band filter for the grism spectra -- this is because all the targets of interest happen to have their Balmer lines falling in this medium-band. This lets us proceed roughly 2x faster than GO 1895. The paired imaging is also then shallower per visit, but the objects of interest are extremely bright (<25.5 mag) and so this is acceptable. We wish to spread out our three visits across the entire observing cycle, while also acquiring background limited spectra. This imposes relatively tight constraints on the scheduling, but we have verified in the visit planner that there are viable windows available nonetheless.