---
id: 7407
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/LRS  NIRCam/GTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Matthew Nixon"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "31.1/0.0"
program_title: "Completing the sub-Neptune Spectral Sequence with HD 86226 c"
type: "GO"
---
# 7407 - Completing the sub-Neptune Spectral Sequence with HD 86226 c
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7407
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                      | Observing Template                     | Science Target             |
| :------------------------- | :------------------------------------- | :------------------------- |
|                            | NIRCam Grism Time Series               | (1) HD-86226               |
|                            | NIRCam Grism Time Series               | (1) HD-86226               |
|                            | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy       | (3) HD-86226-copy          |
|                            | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy       | (2) HD-86226-background    |

## ABSTRACT

We propose to acquire a panchromatic transmission (1-10 micron) spectrum of the hot (1300 K) sub-Neptune HD 86226 c by observing three transits: two with NIRCam using the DHS mode (one transit with F150W2 + F322W2, the second with F150W2 + F444W), and one with MIRI LRS. This is the best-suited sub-Neptune for atmospheric characterization that has an equilibrium temperature higher than 1000 K, filling an enormous gap in the parameter space of exisiting JWST programs, and presenting a unique opportunity to learn about a host of atmospheric and surface processes.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to observe three transits of the exoplanet HD 86226 c, using (1) NIRCam F150W2 + F322W2, (2) NIRCam F150W2 + F444W, and (3) MIRI LRS. Transits 1 and 2 will be observed in DHS mode, allowing for simultaneous short and long wavelength coverage.

We wish to use the DHS4 and DHS7 readout patterns for our NIRCam F322W2 and F444W visits respectively. These readout patterns cannot yet be specified in the APT, so we describe them below.

For our total exposure duration of 7.99 hours for the NIRCam F322W2 visit, the readout pattern DHS4 (nGroups = 3) does not exceed the 15GB data excess threshold given the JDox SW Grism Time Series Observing Strategies article. Therefore, we will update our program to use DHS4 pattern, nGroups = 3, prior to execution. In the submitted proposal, we use the RAPID readout pattern, nGroups = 3 (as instructed by JDox), which produces a predicted data excess of 57.5 GB. As noted above, we will change to the DHS4 pattern with nGroups = 3 if our proposal is accepted, which will result in a data excess of 8.29 GB, below the 15 GB middle threshold.

Following the JDox, we tested the feasibility of this observation using the RAPID readout pattern with nGroups = 5. This visit reaches 97% / 26% full well saturation for F332W / F150W2 (does not saturate).

For our total exposure duration of 7.99 hours for the NIRCam F444W visit, the readout pattern DHS7 (nGroups = 3) similarly does not data excess threshold given in the JDox SW Grism Time Series Observing Strategies article. Therefore, we plan to update our program to use DHS7 pattern, nGroups = 3, prior to execution. In the submitted proposal, we use the RAPID readout pattern, nGroups = 3 (as instructed in by JDox), which produces a predicted data excess of 57.5 GB. As noted above, we will change to the DHS7 pattern with nGroups = 3 if our proposal is accepted, which will not lead to a data excess.

Following the JDox, we tested the feasibility of this observation using the RAPID readout pattern with nGroups = 8. This visit reaches 81% / 42% full well saturation for F44W / F150W2 (does not saturate).

For our MIRI LRS visit, our chosen nGroups = 6 does not lead to any data excess. This visit reaches 78% full well saturation.

PA angle will be specified when a newer version of ExoCTK is available with DHS overlap.

For each visit, we will use the main target for TA.

If these observations are approved, we will work with STScI to modify the specifics of our observing strategy if their planned DHS mode tests indicate that this is necessary.