---
id: 7429
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Lulu Zhang"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "11.6/0.0"
program_title: "Unraveling Effects of Different Modes of AGN Feedback via PAH Features"
type: "GO"
---
# 7429 - Unraveling Effects of Different Modes of AGN Feedback via PAH Features
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7429
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                      | Observing Template              | Science Target                  |
| :------------------------- | :------------------------------ | :------------------------------ |
| NGC-4253-BKG               | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) NGC-4253-BKG              |
| NGC-4253-MRS               | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) NGC-4253-MRS              |
| NGC-4253-NIRSpec           | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy        | (7) NGC-4253-NIRSpec          |
| NGC-7314-BKG               | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) NGC-7314-BKG              |
| NGC-7314-MRS               | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) NGC-7314-MRS              |
| NGC-7314-NIRSpec           | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy        | (8) NGC-7314-NIRSpec          |
| IRAS-18325-5926-BKG        | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (6) IRAS-18325-5926-BKG       |
| IRAS-18325-5926-MRS        | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (5) IRAS-18325-5926-MRS       |
| IRAS-8325-5926-NIRSpec     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy        | (9) IRAS-18325-5926-NIRSpec   |

---

## ABSTRACT

Widely regarded to coevolve with their galaxies, supermassive black holes can influence their hosts and large-scale surroundings via different feedback effects. Inspired by some recent studies of Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbons (PAHs), we propose to observe a sample of nearby Seyferts sharing the similar PAH properties to those of quasars to explore the capability of PAH features in diagnosing the radiative effects of the quasar mode AGN feedback. With the spatially resolved NIRSpec/IFU and MIRI/MRS spectroscopy, we will combine the observed PAH characteristics and modeled PAH grids, to ascertain the changing trend of PAH sizes and ionization fractions in the central regions of our target Seyferts. Meanwhile, the emission line measurements will be fitted to corresponding excitation models to constrain the fundamental physical parameters and input energetics, essentially explaining the changing trend of PAH sizes and ionization fractions. We can then use PAH characteristics to quantify the impact of AGN feedback, via the calibration between derived fundamental physical parameters and input energetics with derived PAH properties, i.e., PAH sizes and ionization fractions. Additionally, archived JWST observations specifically for very low luminosity AGN, especially the low-ionization nuclear emission-line regions (LINERs), will be combined as the supplementary sample, to explore the capability of PAH features in diagnosing the mechanical effects of the radio mode feedback. The significance of this proposal lies in that it will provide an easily observable and practical method in the infrared band to quantify the impact of AGN feedback effects.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to obtain the NIRSpec/IFU 2.9-5.1 micron spectroscopy using the G395H/F290LP filter and the full MIRI/MRS 4.9-28.5 micron spectroscopy (Channels 1-4) for the central regions of 3 nearby Seyferts. For both the NIRSpec/IFU and MIRI/MRS spectroscopy, we request a single pointing centered on each Seyfert, with the 4-point dither patten used. We also request a recommended 2-point dither background observation with the same other configurations for the MIRI/MRS spectroscopy of each target. No background observation is requested for the NIRSpec/IFU spectroscopy, but we request specific 1 point no dither observation with the same other configurations for the leakage correction of the NIRSpec/IFU spectroscopy of each target. We use NRSIRS2RAPID and FASTR1 readout modes for NIRSpec/IFU and MIRI/MRS observations, respectively, to avoid saturation considering the bright nuclei of these Seyferts. For each dither point, the group number of each integration are 5-12 for the NIRSpec/IFU spectroscopy and 40-120 for the MIRI/MRS spectroscopy, and we request 1 integration for the exposure of each target. The total integration times of our targets are 365–880s for NIRSpec/IFU exposures and 1344–4008s for MIRI/MRS exposures. In addition, we will also obtain the simultaneously conducted imaging using filters of F560W, F770W, and F1130W.