---
id: 7433
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 6
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging  NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Mika Juvela"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "7.1/0.0"
program_title: "Mass inflow structures in star formation from filaments to streamers: the unique field of Orion Molecular Cloud 3"
type: "GO"
---
# 7433 - Mass inflow structures in star formation from filaments to streamers: the unique field of Orion Molecular Cloud 3
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7433
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label      | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :--------- | :----------------- | :------------- |
| OMC3-M     | MIRI Imaging       | (2) OMC3-M     |
| OMC3-M-BG  | MIRI Imaging       | (4) MIRI BG    |
| OMC3-N     | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) OMC3-N     |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose to image the Orion Molecular Cloud 3 (OMC-3), to trace mass transfer along the star-formation (SF) process. Mid-infrared (MIR) extinction will be used to measure column density N(H) at an unprecedented resolution, independent of the large temperature and gas-phase abundance uncertainties that affect ALMA studies. Further aided by NIR-MIR scattering, we can measure in exquisite detail structures from large-scale massive filaments (~0.5 pc field) down to the smallest scales (0.3", ~120 au), over a wide range of column densities, N(H) ~ 1e21 - 1e23 cm-2. Together with the existing line and dust polarization data, this will help to unravel the formation mechanisms of filaments and confirm the the role of fibers in the growth of protostellar cores. Most importantly, JWST data will give an unprecedented view into the mass inflow at the smallest scales, such as the streamers that feed prestellar cores and potentially even young stellar objects (YSOs). The results will have profound impact on our understanding of SF, the evolution of protostellar disks, and the planet formation. Thanks to the wavelength coverage, it is also possible to separate the contributions of light scattering (<5 µm; very sensitivity to grain growth) and thermal dust emission (>10µm; measure of small-grain populations). Together with spatially resolved extinction curves, the data will also lead to full characterization of dust evolution in the field. OMC-3 is a unique target, being located in the closest high-mass SF cloud (d~390 pc), with known strong MIR extinction. The science case is similarly unique to JWST, unable to be addressed with any other past or present instrument.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The measurements consist of NIRCam and MIRI photometric observations of a field in the OMC-3 cloud in Orion. The objectives include the high-resolution imaging of MIR extinction, NIR-MIR scattering, and MIR emission.

The MIRI observations consist of a single pointing that is repeated for four filters: F560W, F770W, F1000W, and F1800W. Multiple filters are needed to ensure a high dynamical range for the mid-infrared (MIR) absorption mapping and for the detection of thermal emission from small dust grains. The extinction observations should be able to probe column densities at a relative accuracy of ~10% in the range N(H)=1e21 - 3×10^23 cm^-2. The integration times are based on (1) the depth of the mid-infrared absorption that is at low resolution known from Spitzer and WISE observations, and (2) the results from radiative transfer models of the OMC-3 region (matching existing FIR data from Herschel, Artemis and MIR data from Spitzer and WISE) . The requested signal-to-noise ratios exceed 100 per band, when measured relative to the maximum depth of the MIR absorption dip. The shorter wavelengths are more sensitive to optical depth variations at low column densities (~1e21-1e22 cm-2), while the longest wavelengths (10-21 µm) are critical for reaching the highest column densities close to ~1e23 cm-3. The use of multiple filters also provides constraints on the dust extinction curve. The contributions of thermal dust emission becomes significant outside the densest regions. With the proposed sensitivity, we expect to reach SNR~25 for the emission down to very low column densities, for N(H) a few times 1e21 cm^-2.

The NIRCam observations also consist of a single pointing, using two pairs of filters: F150W+F356W and F200W+F480M. Dithering is used to ensure a continuous coverage over an area of 2 × 5 arcmin. The NIRCam integration times are based on the expected level of scattered light (>~1 MJy/sr) and the existing Spitzer and WISE measurements on the MIR absorption, which will dominate over scattering in the regions of highest column density (the filaments and cores). Figure 2d noise values are given per beam. The NIRCam data will provide an order of magnitude improvement over the Spitzer resolution, with the high sensitivity that is required for the spatial mapping of the scattered light intensity (e.g. the detection of streamers and striations), the estimation of the extinction curve, and the study of the structure of the filaments and cores (outer parts, Av<100 mag) at scales down to angular resolution of ~0.3 arcsec (~120 au at the distance of Orion).