---
id: 7457
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS  NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Wuji Wang  Co-PIs: Dominika Wylezalek"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "11.6/0.0"
program_title: "Quenching physics and age demographics of stellar populations in a massive radio-loud AGN host galaxy at z~3.5"
type: "GO"
---
# 7457 - Quenching physics and age demographics of stellar populations in a massive radio-loud AGN host galaxy at z~3.5
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7457
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                   | Observing Template              | Science Target          |
| :---------------------- | :------------------------------ | :---------------------- |
| MIRI_MRS_TNJ0121        | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) TNJ0121+1320        |
| MIRI_MRS_TNJ0121_BKG    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) TNJ0121+1320-BKG    |
| NIRCam_TNJ0121          | NIRCam Imaging                  | (3) TNJ0121+1320-NIRCam |

---

## ABSTRACT

Feedback from actively accreting supermassive black holes (AGN) impact their host galaxies in multiple ways which can be traced on pc to kpc scales. Quenching is frequently modeled as heating up the gas such that it can no longer form stars.

We propose a pilot MIRI/MRS observation targeting the warm molecular gas (H2) in a high-redshift radio galaxy (J0121) at z=3.5. We also propose NIRCam imaging to cover the old stars in the host and scattered blue AGN light.

J0121 already has robust evidence for quasar-mode and radio-mode feedback and merger process through the study of optical, UV and submm emission lines. JWST/MIRI will open the study of a crucial gas phase of active galaxies at the onset of Cosmic Noon to address the long-standing question on how and when AGN quench massive galaxies. The 3D coverage with MIRI MRS will provide a unique opportunity to map the warm H2, a previously inaccessible ISM tracer in HzRGs at z>3. The diffraction-limited resolution of MIRI and NIRCam photometry will cover the broad spectral energy distribution from restframe 0.1 to 6µm, determining the spatial distribution of old stellar population on sub-kpc scales, isolate the AGN-heated dust emission, and constrain the young stars beneath AGN.

This proposal will tell us if the AGN can prevent warm H2 from cooling efficiently and determine the age (and spatial distribution) of all stars. J0121 has a plethora of multi-wavelength data (incl. JWST NIRSpec IFU for the warm ionized gas and ALMA for cold gas) and is ideal for linking the energy output of AGN through different phases and studying its impact on the ingredients of the host galaxies—the warm H2 and stars—of powerful AGN at z=3.5.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will observe one high-redshift radio galaxies at z=3.519 using the MIRI MRS in MEDIUM sub-band. The main goal is to spatially map the warm H_2 tracers, several will be captured in CH2 with MEDIUM sub-band, including the brightest, H_2 1-0 S(1). The PAH3.3 feature will also be captured in CH3 MEDIUM.

We will also setup NIRCam imaging at F250M, F335M, F410M, and F480M to sample the stellar SED. The F070W, F090W, F115W, and F140M at the shorter wavelength will be selected simulatenously to cover the blue AGN light in rest-frame UV.

The following observing modes are:

**TNJ0121+1320 -- MIRI MRS, MEDIUM sub-band:**
*   4-point dither pattern
*   25 groups and 7 integration per dither position
*   Readout mode: SLOWR1
*   --> total exposure time on source: 4.8 hours
*   1 background image slightly (~1 arcmin) offset from the target position with same readout 25 groups and 7 integrations, science exposure: 4.8 hours (within the MRS exposure)

**TNJ0121+1320 -- NIRCam imaginge:**
*   4 filters combinations:
    *   F070W+F250M
    *   F090W+F335M
    *   F115W+F410M
    *   F140M+F480M
*   For each, INTRASCA 4 SMALL STANDARD dither pattern, 4 groups and 1 integration per dither position
*   -->total on source: 0.2 hours

**TNJ0121+1320 -- MIRI MRS background (source position will be fine tuned):**
*   2-point dither pattern
*   same setup as at per science dither position
*   --> total on source time: 2.4 hours
*   1 background image with F2550W filter to cover the science target to facilitate SED fitting: 25 groups and 7 inegrations, science exposure: 2.3 hours (within MRS exposure, maybe fine tuned with MIRI specialist given the mid-IR background)