---
id: 7488
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Andrea Weibel"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "14.1/0.0"
program_title: "Echoes of Silence: Absorption Line Spectroscopy of a Massive Quiescent Galaxy at z=7.3"
type: "GO"
---
# 7488 - Echoes of Silence: Absorption Line Spectroscopy of a Massive Quiescent Galaxy at z=7.3
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7488
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                  | Observing Template              | Science Target                      |
| :--------------------- | :------------------------------ | :---------------------------------- |
| uds-210-2configs       | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (1) primer-uds z7qg apt catalog     |

## ABSTRACT

The recent discovery of a massive quiescent galaxy at z=7.3, RUBIES-UDS-QG-z7, has pushed the most distant known such galaxy ~500 Myr closer to the Big Bang. Its mere existence challenges models and simulations which predict number densities that are ~100 times lower than implied by RUBIES-UDS-QG-z7, and struggle to reproduce its formation pathway. While the available PRISM spectrum shows no emission lines and a strong Balmer Break, absorption features are only tentatively detected. Deeper, medium resolution spectroscopy is needed to confirm the quiescence of the source through direct detection of individual (Balmer) absorption lines. This will further enable the first ever measurement of a stellar velocity dispersion at z>7, providing an independent probe of the total mass of the system, and yield much tighter constraints on the star formation history. These information are pivotal to gain confidence in the nature of the source, to better understand how it formed and quenched so rapidly so early on in the Universe, and to provide valuable constraints for models and simulations of high redshift galaxies.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The main goals of this proposal are to detect and quantify Balmer absorption lines in RUBIES-UDS-QG-z7, as well as to infer its stellar velocity dispersion, sigma_* from fitting the spectrum. We choose the G395M/F290LP grating/filter pair with a 3 shutters slitlet shape. We use two different dithers/masks to mitigate cosmic rays with 3 nods each for optimal background subtraction, 5 integrations per exposure and 17 groups per integration with the NRSIRS2 readout, yielding a total exposure time of 37'639.34 s. We will make sure that the primary target is well-centered in the MSA shutter to avoid unnecessary slit losses which will be minimal due to the compact size of the target. Additionally, the MSA will be filled with potential neighbors at 7<z_phot<7.6, and any galaxies at z>7.