---
id: 7492
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/LRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Dominika Wylezalek  Co-PIs: David Rupke"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "42.2/0.0"
program_title: "MILAN - MIRI LRS Program of AGN at Cosmic Noon"
type: "GO"
---
# 7492 - MILAN - MIRI LRS Program of AGN at Cosmic Noon
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7492
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template            | Science Target               |
| :---- | :---------------------------- | :--------------------------- |
|       | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) BQ_J1220+0004            |
|       | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) BQ J1436+6336            |
|       | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) BQ J0149+1501            |
|       | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (5) BQ J1421+2241            |
|       | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (6) MRC0156-252              |
|       | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (8) TNJ2254+1857             |
|       | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (9) TXS1113-178              |
|       | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (10) 3C362                   |
|       | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (11) ERQ J134800.13-025006.4 |
|       | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (12) ERQ J135608.32+073017.2 |
|       | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (13) ERQ J001120.22+260109.2 |
|       | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (15) ERQ_J000610.67+121501.2 |
|       | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (16) W0912+7741              |
|       | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (17) W2313-2417              |
|       | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (19) W1835+4355              |
|       | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (20) W1801+1543              |
|       | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (21) HRQ_VIKJ2243-3504       |
|       | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (22) HRQ VHSJ1301-1624       |
|       | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (24) HRQ VIKJ2314-3459       |
|       | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (25) HRQ VIKJ2256-3114       |

---

## ABSTRACT

The energy output from rapidly growing supermassive black holes at the centers of galaxies (Active Galactic Nuclei, or AGN) is widely considered to be the main driver in regulating the evolution of massive galaxies in the Universe. The impact of luminous AGN was probably strongest around Cosmic Noon, the peak of both star formation and quasar activity at 1.5 < z < 3. To explore the feedback of AGN on the ISM, we are now able to access the all-important dust phase with the JWST. Mid-IR dust features in AGN indirectly probe feedback by tracing star formation, obscuration and the destruction of small dust grains. Taking advantage of the high sensitivity of the MIRI / LRS, we propose a JWST program to efficiently construct a library of 20 mid-IR spectra of luminous AGN at Cosmic Noon. Our targets are drawn from five different luminous quasar samples at z~2_that span a range in AGN properties (red vs. blue, jetted vs. non-jetted, low-L vs. high-L). Our program adds to the legacy of ongoing LRS surveys of star-forming galaxies at the same cosmic epoch. We will disentangle the effects of different AGN types on dust, assess AGN feedback at Cosmic Noon using PAH, Ice and HAC absorption features and provide a legacy library of 1.5 - 4.5 um spectra of powerful AGN at z ~ 2.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose MIRI/LRS slit spectroscopy of 20 powerful AGN at z 2. We aim to detect the 3.3 m PAH feature in the LRS spectrum with a SNR of > 5 in every source using one exposure per dither, and a single along slit nod dither pattern. We estimate line widths and strengths based on local correlations with total infrared luminosity. The selected AGN samples have typical known infrared luminosites of > 10^1112 L and we use the lower limit as a conservative estimate. We emphasize that this conservative estimate of the 3.3um PAH is low risk because robust WISE and/or Spitzer detections for our sample overlaps the LRS wavelength range, constraining the continuum brightness.

We find that in 1 hour on source, we will detect the 3.3 m PAH feature with a S/N ratio of 5 15. The WISE filters overlap with the LRS wavelength range, which helps constrain the expected continuum in the slit, signficantly lowering the risk of non-detections. Specifically, we will use along-slit dither, the FASTR1 readout and 648 groups, giving a total exposure time of 3596.452 seconds.

We will perform Target Acquisition (TA) using the science targets with guide coordinates from SDSS or Spitzer imaging. We will use the F1500W filter and an exposure tim of: 44.4 seconds (the allowed minimum) which will be sufficient to reach the target S/N for TA. This corresponds to 4 groups using the FASTGRPAVG readout mode.

The emission we aim to measure in the LRS slit is expected to be co-spatial with the peak in the TA images, so the centroiding algorithm used in placing the slit on-target is ideal for our science goals. Background subtraction will be done using portions of the slit mosaics that do not contain sources.