---
id: 7503
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Eleonora Parlanti"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "49.9/0.0"
program_title: "CACTUS: Comprehensive Analysis of Compton-Thick AGN in the early UniverSe"
type: "GO"
---
# 7503 - CACTUS: Comprehensive Analysis of Compton-Thick AGN in the early UniverSe
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7503
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label          | Observing Template         | Science Target         |
| :------------- | :------------------------- | :--------------------- |
| XID717         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy   | (1) XID717             |
| XID100         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy   | (2) XID100             |
| XID490         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy   | (3) XID490             |
| XID12          | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy   | (4) XID12              |
| XID53          | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy   | (14) XID53             |
| XID262         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy   | (5) XID262             |
| XID439         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy   | (6) XID439             |
| XID504         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy   | (7) XID504             |
| XID492         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy   | (8) XID492             |
| LID283         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy   | (9) LID_283            |
| CID700         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy   | (10) CID_700           |
| CID965         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy   | (13) CID_965           |
| COS_845652     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy   | (11) COSMOS2015-845652 |
| COS_658951     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy   | (12) COSMOS2015-658951 |
| AEGIS34        | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy   | (15) AEGIS-34          |

## ABSTRACT

JWST observations have revealed the presence of a new population of high-redshift AGN identified through the detection of broad permitted emission lines, or thanks to narrow line ratio diagnostics, but undetected or very weak in the X-ray band, challenging traditional AGN classification paradigms. This raises the question of whether such AGN represent a more extreme version of the known Compton Thick (CT) AGN population or are fundamentally different AGN types to the ones detected in X-ray surveys. Several JWST programs have targeted this newly discovered AGN population, but they lack an adequate control sample of X-ray detected CT AGN. We aim to address this gap with a systematic study of 15 X-ray detected CT-AGN at z>2.5. In this proposal, we will assemble the first statistical sample of CT-AGN at cosmic noon observed with NIRSpec. This large sample will allow us not only to put into context the properties of the newly discovered AGN from public surveys, but also to characterize the evolution of CT AGN properties across cosmic time, assess the extent of misclassification between X-ray and optical classification, and analyze outflows and host galaxy properties. Our observations will exploit NIRSpec/IFU high-resolution gratings to explore the main optical emission lines, ultimately enhancing our understanding of obscured black hole accretion in the early Universe.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This proposal aims to observe 15 Compton thick X-ray selected AGN at z>2.5 with NIRSpec IFU high-resolution gratings (G235H/F170LP and or G395H/F290LP depending on the redshift) to cover the main optical emission lines. The main goal is to obtain a parent sample to the JWST-selected AGN population to statistically compare the properties of X-ray selected, but obscure AGN with the JWST-selected, X-ray undetected AGN. We will use a medium cycling pattern with 8-point dithers to accurately sample the PSF and a variable number of groups per integration depending on the brightness of each target. We compute with the ETC v.4 the exposure time to achieve a similar level of S/N for each target such that we will be able to achieve the main goals of this proposal. We will use NRSIRS2 readout pattern mode to reduce the data volume. We will not perform Target Acquisition, since the absolute JWST pointing accuracy of 0.1arcsec is more than sufficient given the size of our targets. We do not require background exposures since we will derive the background from emission-free spaxels in our FOV. We constrained the PA to avoid MSA leakage of bright sources, when possible, but our dithering strategy allows us to minimize the potential impact of MSA leakage.