---
id: 7511
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging  NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Alba Covelo-Paz  Co-PIs: Pascal Oesch"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "19.1/9.7"
program_title: "Sleeping Beauties: On the Search for Dormant Galaxies in the First Gyr"
type: "GO"
---
# 7511 - Sleeping Beauties: On the Search for Dormant Galaxies in the First Gyr
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7511
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label      | Observing Template                  | Science Target            |
| :--------- | :---------------------------------- | :------------------------ |
| Pointing1  | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy    | (5) sleeping_beauties     |
| Pointing2  | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy    | (5) sleeping_beauties     |
| Pointing3  | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy    | (5) sleeping_beauties     |
| Pointing4  | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy    | (5) sleeping_beauties     |
| Pointing5  | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy    | (5) sleeping_beauties     |

---

## ABSTRACT

The first year of JWST has revealed extremely strong rest-frame optical emission lines in the average z>4 galaxy together with very blue UV spectra. The first generations of galaxies thus grow extremely rapidly through multiple generations of stochastic bursts of star formation. This explains the extremely high average Halpha fluxes and specific star formation rates. However, among this tumultuous frenzy of early star formation, one can also find a few sleeping beauties: galaxies whose star formation is off. One of these sources was hiding in plain sight, among all the other Lyman Break Galaxies (LBGs) in the Hubble Ultra Deep Field. A surprising JADES NIRSpec spectrum revealed it as a dormant galaxy at z=7.3 based on absent rest-optical emission lines, but still showing the blue UV colors typical for LBGs. Its star formation must have shut off just recently, ~10-20 Myr ago. How many more such galaxies exist is completely unclear, however, and to date only three of them have been confirmed at z>5. Here, we exploit the complete spectral coverage at 3-5 microns from the FRESCO and CONGRESS NIRCam/grism datasets for a first systematic search for candidate dormant galaxies at z~4-6 with absent or unusually low inferred Halpha flux. NIRSpec/prism spectroscopy is needed to confirm their redshifts and constrain the Halpha fluxes to 5x better sensitivity. The prism spectra will reveal their star formation histories through spectral fitting. By combining these sources with the "normal" z~4-6 galaxy population, this will lead to the first systematic constraint on the timescales between the ups and downs of early, bursty star formation.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The primary goal of this program is to obtain ~2hr deep NIRSpec/prism observations of post-starburst galaxy candidates at z>~4 to test their nature as galaxies in a lull phase of star-formation and to systematically constrain the burstiness of star-formation in early galaxies. We will thus also measure emission lines for several "normal" main-sequence galaxies at z~4-9.5 selected from existing NIRCam imaging in the two GOODS-fields. Hence, no pre-imaging is required. Additionally, we will take medium band parallel images that samples the Balmer break and will enable the identification of more such galaxies in the future. These NIRCam images will further enhance the legacy value of the two GOODS-North field.

**NIRSpec exposures:**
The observing strategy for the MSA consists of nodding along 3 slitlets centered on our targets. For each mask, we split these observations into two groups to mitigate the risk of shorts. We are taking a series of 17 groups and 1 integration per exposure with the NRSIRS2 readout mode. This is repeated for 2x3 dither positions, resulting in a total science time of 7528s per mask. This same strategy will be repeated for each of our five masks. Our tests show that we can target ~45 primary galaxy candidate as well as up to ~115 other galaxies in the field. These filler galaxies will consist first of "normal" galaxies at zspec~4-9.5 from grism observations, before we add further galaxies with zphot>~4. The MSA mask design will be finalized once the VPA3 angle of JWST is assigned.

**NIRCam parallels:**
The NIRCam parallels will be taken in four different filters, F162M, F210M, F300M, and F430M. These filters straddle the Balmer break of z~5.5 galaxies and complement existing data in these fields. We will use the Deep8 readout mode, with 6 groups and 1 integration at each of the 3 primary dither positions. The total integration time per filter thus amounts to 3478s.