---
id: 7519
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/WFSS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Junya Arita"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "47.2/0.0"
program_title: "How do dark matter halos connect with supermassive black holes and their host galaxies?"
type: "GO"
---
# 7519 - How do dark matter halos connect with supermassive black holes and their host galaxies?
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7519
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template                 | Science Target |
| :---- | :--------------------------------- | :------------- |
|       | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (1) J0217m0208 |
|       | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (2) J0844m0132 |
|       | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (3) J0844m0052 |
|       | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (4) J0911p0152 |
|       | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (5) J0918p0139 |
|       | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (6) J1146p0124 |
|       | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (7) J1146m0005 |
|       | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (8) J1425m0015 |
|       | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (9) J1512p4422 |
|       | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (10) J1525p4303 |
|       | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (11) J2236p0032 |
|       | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (12) J2255p0251 |

## ABSTRACT

JWST NIRCam WFSS observations have played an important role in measuring the dark matter halo (DMH) mass of high-z quasars but these measurements are limited to bright quasars. We propose NIRCam WFSS observations to identify [O III] emitters around 12 faint quasars at z~6. Our targets have been well studied with JWST NIRCam and NIRSpec observations, and the stellar mass and black hole mass relation appears to be consistent with the local relation. In this new effort, we will measure the average DMH mass from the cross-correlation analysis of quasars and surrounding [O III] emitters, and evaluate the DMH mass probability density function for individual quasars based on cosmological simulations. This program will allow us, for the first time, to obtain a quasar sample in which the black hole mass, stellar mass, and halo mass are all measured simultaneously. This sample will reveal their lifetime and the scaling relations in the early universe, underling the SMBH growth of SMBHs over cosmic time.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose NIRCam WFSS observations with the F360M filter to identify the galaxies surrounding 12 low-luminosity quasars at z~6 using [O III] emission line (3.54-3.70 um in the observed frame). The dark matter halo mass of these low-luminosity quasars is obtained by the cross-correlation analysis between them and surrounding galaxies. In addition to the clustering analysis, the probability density function of the DMH mass of individual quasars is evaluated based on the galaxy overdensity compared with cosmological simulations. We will identify [O III] emitters with > 3.5 × 10^-18 erg/s/cm^2 with about 14,000-s exposure for each single target. Including overhead, the NIRCam WFSS observations requires about 3.9 hours for each quasar field. In total, we request 47.2 hours to achieve our science goals.