---
id: 7538
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Gabriele Cugno  Co-PIs: Sierra Grant"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "59.1/0.0"
program_title: "Giants in the making: the composition of circumplanetary disks with JWST MIRI-MRS"
type: "GO"
---
# 7538 - Giants in the making: the composition of circumplanetary disks with JWST MIRI-MRS
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7538
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label              | Observing Template                  | Science Target                  |
| :----------------- | :---------------------------------- | :------------------------------ |
| FU Tau B - MRS     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) V-FU-Tau-B                  |
| DH Tau B - MRS     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) V-DH-Tau-B                  |
| GSC 6214b_B - MRS  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (6) GSC-06214-00210B            |
| 2M J0359b_B - MRS  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (10) 2MASS-J03590986+2009361-B |
| YSES 1 b - MRS     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (8) TYC-8998-760-1B             |

## ABSTRACT

    JWST's Medium Resolution Spectrometer (MRS) is redefining our understanding of protoplanetary disk chemistry and physics. By targeting a range of stellar and substellar hosts, programs in Cycles 1–3 are revealing the diversity in disk composition while also allowing us to make fundamental strides in our understanding of disk chemistry and its link to evolution.

    After demonstrating that JWST can capture the complex interplay of gas and dust in protoplanetary disks, we propose to expand these groundbreaking studies to a new class of targets: circumplanetary disks (CPDs) surrounding planetary-mass companions (Mp < 20 MJup). Our proposed observations will leverage MRS's spectral and spatial resolution to obtain high quality spectra of 5 CPDs to unravel their gas chemistry, dust properties, and disk structure. These targets will complete the known sample of CPDs that are characterizable with MRS, and all of our sources are vetted to have robust signatures of infrared excess and ongoing accretion and have complementary data to study the planetary atmospheres. This investigation will reveal whether the CPD chemistry is consistent with trends seen for isolated low-mass hosts.

    At the intersection between the fields of disk chemistry, direct imaging, planet atmospheres, and planetary formation and evolution, these data will serve as a benchmark for understanding the final assembly stages of gas giants, bridging the gap between young disks and mature planets, while also giving unique insight into the ingredients available for satellite formation.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

    We plan to observe 5 circumplanetary disks (CPDs) with MIRI/MRS to detect spectral features associated with molecular gas and dust.
    For all targets, we do Target Acquisition on the main star and we then shift to the companions. We will use 4 point dithering treating the scene as a point source and not an extended source. For 2 targets the primary star is far away enough that it will not contaminate the field of view (hence the CPD appears as a point source). For the other 3 targets, the main star will be visible in the image. However, previous datasets and experience demonstrated that the point source dither strategy provides the most stable PSF essential to model and remove the stellar contribution and reveal the companion.
    When the stellar PSF contaminates the image we include a PA constraint to minimize the contribution and lower the stellar photon noise at the location of the CPD.
    Because of the long exposure times necessary to detect molecular features, we opted to use the SLOW readout mode which averages the detector data every 10 groups. This way we can integrate long enough without issues related to data volume. We always maintain integrations shorter than 1000s to limit the negative impact of cosmic rays.