---
id: 7564
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging  MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Mary Anne Limbach"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "27.2/0.0"
program_title: "A Search for Life Around Two Dead Stars"
type: "GO"
---
# 7564 - A Search for Life Around Two Dead Stars
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7564
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template                | Science Target      |
| :---- | :-------------------------------- | :------------------ |
| 1     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) vMa-2           |
| 2     | MIRI Imaging                      | (1) vMa-2           |
| 3     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) LAWD-37         |
| 4     | MIRI Imaging                      | (2) LAWD-37         |

---

## ABSTRACT

Recent detections and theoretical modeling suggest that rocky planets may find their way into the habitable zone of white dwarf stars, and may even possess conditions necessary for the development of life. However, finding these planets has so far been very difficult. This program seeks to conduct the first search for terrestrial planets in the habitable zones of white dwarfs by targeting the two nearest (4-5 pc) solitary white dwarf systems, vMa 2 and GJ 440. Utilizing JWST's MIRI/MRS and imaging, the program will search for unresolved infrared excess from warm (T > 200 K) rocky planets and will also be capable of detecting cold gas giants (T > 95 K) at a wide range of separations (0-400 AU). Detecting the first HZ terrestrial exoplanet orbiting a white dwarf, or any exoplanet around one of these extremely nearby white dwarfs, would be a very useful outcome with broad implications. Furthermore, if the expected sensitivities are achieved, this program could pave the way for future, larger-scale efforts to constrain the occurrence rates of habitable zone planets around white dwarfs. These worlds could provide crucial insights into the survival and evolution of planetary systems after their stars leave the main sequence and could reveal key information about habitability in this unique environment. Any planets detected through this program would be prime candidates for detailed atmospheric characterization and possibly in-depth biosignature searches. Biosignatures on HZ planets orbiting either of these white dwarfs can be detected with a relatively modest follow-up effort, requiring between 12 and 50 hours of observation time, depending on the planet's size.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The proposed observation is a MRS observation in all three sub-bands and 7m, 18m, 21m and 25m MIRI imaging of the white dwarfs GJ 440 and vMa 2 (Wolf 28), which are K = 11.1 and 11.5 mag, respectively.

MRS Observations: To acheive the required sensitivity needed to detect rocky planets (> 0.8 earth radii) in the HZ of white dwarfs with IR excess requires that we observe the each white dwarf for a total of 8.1 hours with MRS. We will use the nod in scene strategy using a 4-Point dither to remove background. We will use 110 groups/integration in all three sub-bands which results in 64 total integrations per sub-band. We are far from saturation, but larger numbers of groups/int would result in a result in a high number of cosmic ray events per read. For all MRS observations, we will read out the full array using the FASTR1 readout pattern as this results in the highest SNR observation. We also considered LRS for our observation, but found MRS to provide superior sensitivity to white dwarf rocky planets. Acquisition: Using calculations from the ETC, adequate signal-to-noise without saturation is achievable for both of our targets using the TA acquisition mode, FAST readout, the full array, 4 groups, and the F1000W filter. This acquisition mode produces a signal-to-noise ratio of 268 and 320 on Wolf 28 and GJ 440, respectively. Proper Motion: Both of our targets have a large proper motion values (more than 2000 mas/year), which we input into the APT. The errors on propagated positions are much smaller than MIRI's acquisition field-of-view.

MIRI broadband Imaging: MIRI broadband imaging in the F770W, F1800W, F2100W and F2550W will be conducted on both targets to detect cold giant planets. The exposure times in the four bands are adjusted such that the data is (1) sufficiently sensitive to detect IR excess from cold giant planets at the two longest wavelengths, (2) sufficiently sensitive to detect, via direct imaging, cold giant planets in the three longest wavelengths (7 micron imaging is used to rule out background false positives). This results in 2 hours of imaging for both systems. We will use a 4-point dither pattern for imaging in both filters to correct of bad pixels and remove background noise. For both filters, we will read out the full array using the FASTR1 readout pattern.

Special Requirements: For MRS calibration, it is essential that the two white dwarfs be observed within 3 days of each other to minimize time-dependent systematics and enable photometric calibration between the two stars. This necessitates observing one white dwarf within the micrometeoroid avoidance zone, as there are no other suitable white dwarf targets for this program. Additionally, we require the MIRI imaging and MRS data to be collected back-to-back for each target. If a planet is on a short orbit, observing it at different orbital phases could lead to the planet displaying a significantly different brightness temperature, complicating the interpretation of infrared excess and planetary detection