---
id: 7573
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Miroslava Dessauges-Zavadsky  Co-PIs: Matteo Messa"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "11.8/0.0"
program_title: "The first complete picture of the star-formation cycle at z=1 from molecular clouds to star cluster complexes"
type: "GO"
---
# 7573 - The first complete picture of the star-formation cycle at z=1 from molecular clouds to star cluster complexes
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7573
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template       | Science Target |
| :---- | :----------------------- | :------------- |
| 1     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) A521-SYS1  |
| 3     | NIRCam Imaging           | (1) A521-SYS1  |

## ABSTRACT

Galaxies at z~1-3 host UV-bright clumps, recognised as star cluster complexes formed via disk fragmentation. A521-sys1, a strongly lensed galaxy at z=1, resolved down to 30 pc, sets a record in hosting both 13 stellar clumps detected in HST rest-UV images and 14 giant molecular clouds (GMCs) detected in ALMA CO data at matched ~0.1" resolution. The comparison of GMC and UV clump masses suggests so far a star formation efficiency of 30%, much higher than in local GMCs (<6%). This is a striking result that needs to be confirmed with the requested NIRSpec-IFU Ha mapping of A521-sys1 that will spatially (~0.1'') cross-match GMCs with Ha clumps tracing star formation at much shorter timescales than UV emission. If confirmed, this would suggest an increase in the efficiency of forming stars in high-z galaxies, as advocated by several JWST discoveries. NIRSpec-IFU observations will further reveal: clump metallicities (from Ha+[NII]) to be compared to the underlying disk metallicity; clump outflow signatures and contribution to the stellar feedback at galactic scale; and spatial variations of the Toomre instability (when combined with ALMA CO) to be correlated with stellar clump and GMC locations. The requested NIRCam rest-optical images will determine clump ages and solve the long-standing debate on clump survival timescale as transient features or long-lived star-forming regions. NIRCam will also evidence old, dust extincted or embedded clumps (if any) missed by HST. Our JWST observations will provide the complete picture of the star-formation cycle in this z=1 galaxy from GMCs to star cluster complexes and nail how clumps contribute to the overall evolution of the host galaxy.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We request for NIRSpec-IFU spectroscopy imaging of the strongly lensed galaxy A521-sys1 at z=1, magnified by the foreground galaxy cluster Abell 521. The goal is to measure spatially resolved Halpha emission at 0.1" FHWM resolution across the detected UV-bright stellar clumps and giant molecular clouds. A mosaic of two pointing is needed to cover the main multiple images of the A521-sys1 arc. The NIRSpec observations are taken in G140H/F100LW with 2 integrations per exposure and 10 groups (for each pointing). The selected detector setup is NRSIRS2 and a 8-point medium cycling dithering pattern is used. No background subtraction is performed. The corresponding exposure time allows us to detect Halpha emission at SNR > 5 (peak wavelength, 0.3 arcsec diameter aperture for a point source in the faintest clumps), while also recovering Hbeta and [NII] emissions for the brightest clumps. We require a specific range of PA to optimise the orientation of the IFU with the elongation of the A521-sys1 arc.
We also request NIRCam imaging with the F140M, F150W, F277W and F356W filters with specific offsets to have the A521-sys1 arc centered within one of the NIRCam-SW chip. We use a MEDIUM8 readdout pattern, 4 dither positions and 8 group per integration. The corresponding exposure times allows to reach SNR > 5 in the two filters for fainter magnitudes than HST-detected clumps (ABmag >28.5), allowing the study of clumps down to the intrinsic sizes (~10 pc) and masses (~10^6 M_sun) of individual stellar clusters of all possible ages (up to a few ~Gyr). We request a range of position angles that allow one of the modules to cover the more central regions of the cluster, important for the legacy value of the observations.