---
id: 7575
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging  NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Mikako Matsuura  Co-PIs: Richard Arendt"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "6.4/0.3"
program_title: "Shocks and destruction of dust in the ring of Supernova 1987A"
type: "GO"
---
# 7575 - Shocks and destruction of dust in the ring of Supernova 1987A
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7575
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label        | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :----------- | :----------------- | :------------- |
| NICam        | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) SN-1987A   |
| NICam        | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) SN-1987A   |
| MIRI Imaging | MIRI Imaging       | (1) SN-1987A   |

## ABSTRACT

Dust grains present in the circumstellar and interstellar medium are destroyed by shocks generated by their interaction with fast-expanding supernovae (SNe). The current theoretical estimates of SN dust destruction rates are uncertain, ranging from 1% to nearly 100%, requiring a better constraint. SN 1987A has ongoing shocks against the circumstellar ring, which was expelled by the red-supergiant progenitor about 20,000 years ago. Spitzer's spatially unresolved observations have shown that the total brightness of the ring declined on a yearly time scale, suggesting shock destruction of dust grains. Now, spatially resolved NIRCam and MIRI imaging can pinpoint the ongoing shocked regions and dust destruction sites. The physical properties of shocks can be measured in a spatially resolved manner for the first time. By comparing cycle 1 and the requested cycle 4 observations, the reduction of the dust mass and the cooling rate of the dust emission will be measured. This cooling rate will allow us to evaluate the dust grain size, as smaller dust grains cool more rapidly than larger grains due to their lower heat capacity. This experiment is possible in a unique target SN 1987A, which is only 50 kpc away so that the progress of shocks can be spatially resolved with JWST. Its shocks are about to exit from the circumstellar ring, and this will be one of the last chances to assess the dust destruction rate in SNe.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We request observations of SN 1987A, with NIRCam, MIRI imaging.

NIRCam F300M, F356W and F444W imaging are for synchrotron continuum from the ring. F444W might have some contamination of dust emissions. F150W, F200W and F210M imaging come as a bonus, without any additional observing time. They will capture [Fe II], He I and H2 emissions from the ejecta.

For MIRI, seven filter bands are requested in order to cover the spectral energy distribution of the silicate dust. The five bands between F1000W and F2550W will be used to trace the shape of the silicate emission, determining the dust temperature and mass. F560W and F770W will be used to constrain the Wien's tail of the Planck Function, giving the limits to the contamination of the dust into NIRCam F444W.

Both NIRCam and MIRI observations request parallel observations.