---
id: 7583
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 6
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Shuowen Jin"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "7.2/0.0"
program_title: "Unique H-alpha imaging of a z=3.95 starbursting protocluster"
type: "GO"
---
# 7583 - Unique H-alpha imaging of a z=3.95 starbursting protocluster
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7583
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label              | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :----------------- | :----------------- | :------------- |
| NB H-alpha imaging | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) LH-SBC3    |

## ABSTRACT

We propose to obtain highly sensitive H-alpha imaging of the starbursting protocluster LH-SBC3 at z=3.95 with the NIRCam F323N filter. This protocluster hosts an integrated SFR of 4000 Msun/yr in its compact 100 kpc core, making it one of the most distant and intensely star-forming structures known to date. Fortunately, the H-alpha emission at z=3.95 falls perfectly within the narrowband (NB) filter F323N, making LH-SBC3 the only known protocluster where one can conduct NB H-alpha imaging at z~4. This is a unique opportunity to spectroscopically confirm a large number of protocluster galaxies and investigate the early phases of structure formation. Our primary goal is to robustly characterize star formation activity, stellar mass assembly, and quantify the environmental effects in a z~4 massive protocluster. Second, the supporting broadband imaging will pioneer the detection of intracluster light (ICL) at z~4 and place a stringent constraint on the ICL fraction, providing crucial insights into the origin of ICL.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We use NIRCam/F323N imaging to observe H-alpha emission of LH-SBC3 at z=3.95. At z=3.95, H-alpha is redshifted into the F232N filter with almost a perfect fit. In order to measure the continuum underlying H-alpha lines, we additionally request relatively short integration with the F322W2 filter. Thanks to the extra-wide band of F322W2, the observations will also enable us to detect the ICL or strongly constrain the ICL fraction in LH-SBC3. Alongside with the primary LW imaging, we request parallel SW imaging of F115W, F150W and F200W, which will bracket UV continuum and Balmer break of cluster galaxies. Additionally, we request F210M+F444W imaging to robustly constrain the SEDs for all sources, which is essential for discriminating interlopers, identifying quiescent members, and constraining dust attenuation. We adopt the NIRCam module "ALL", subarray "FULL", primary dither type "INTRAMODULEBOX 4" with readout partten "MEDIUM 8". We adopt an offset to place the target in the deepest area of the mosaic. The dither type "INTRAMODULEBOX 4" will remove the gaps in SW images, meanwhile it ensures the full structure being observed with the deepest integration in both SW and LW.