---
id: 7605
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 3
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Luis Colina Robledo  Co-PIs: Alejandro Crespo Gomez"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "29.2/0.0"
program_title: "Disclosing the nature of GN-z11 with MIRI rest-frame near-IR imaging"
type: "GO"
---
# 7605 - Disclosing the nature of GN-z11 with MIRI rest-frame near-IR imaging
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7605
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                    | Observing Template | Science Target     |
| :----------------------- | :----------------- | :----------------- |
| GNz11 - MIRI F1000W      | MIRI Imaging       | (1) GNz11-offset   |
| GNz11 - MIRI F1280W      | MIRI Imaging       | (1) GNz11-offset   |

---

## ABSTRACT

The galaxy GN-z11 at z=10.6 is the brightest known galaxy before the main Epoch of Reionization (EoR). GN-z11 belongs to the class of luminous galaxies in the early Universe detected by JWST in numberswell above predicted by the models. The nature of this galaxy as an extreme young and compact starburst or as a massive super-Eddington accreting black hole is under debate based on existing NIRCam and NIRSpec data covering a limited rest-frame spectral range (<0.4 microns). This program proposes MIRI F1000W and F1280W imaging of GN-z11, securing for the first time the detection of the rest-frame 0.86 and 1.1 micron continuum emission in a pre-EoR galaxy. These new data, together with archival MIRI F560W and F770W, will be able to distinguish between the near-IR emission of an accreting massive black hole (i.e. AGN) and that of different stellar populations. The proposed imaging will provide the key measurements to establish the star formation history and the nature of the dominant ionizing source, an extreme compact young starburst or an early AGN. This program, together with existing public JWST data, gives a unique opportunity to identify the nature of GN-z11, constraining the history of the early stellar mass buildup and the BH growth in a galaxy well before the main Epoch of Reionization, when the Universe was just 250-400 Myr old.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to conduct deep MIRI imaging of GN-z11 using the F1000W and F1280W filters. The primary aim of these observations is to detect, for the first time, the rest-frame near-IR continuum of a galaxy at the Cosmic Dawn (z>10). The near-IR emission of GN-z11 will be key to determine the star formation history and the nature of the dominant ionizing source in this galaxy, when the Universe was just ~300 Myr old.
We request the images to be taken in the FASTR1 readout mode with ~100 groups per integration and 9 and 13 integrations, obtaining about 25000 and 60000 seconds for the F1000W and F1280W filters, respectively. These observations are conducted using 10-16 dithers with the CYCLING large pattern to optimize the sampling of the MIRI PSF and the correction for residual cosmic rays. We constrain the V3 angle to optimize the overlap with ancillary MIRI F560W+F770W (ID 1264) and NIRCam (ID 1181) deep imaging of this field.