---
id: 7612
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Coronagraphy"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Logan Pearce  Co-PIs: Mary Anne Limbach"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "26.6/0.0"
program_title: "We can directly image super-Earth-sized planets near the habitable zone of Sirius B with JWST/MIRI"
type: "GO"
---
# 7612 - We can directly image super-Earth-sized planets near the habitable zone of Sirius B with JWST/MIRI
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7612
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Folder Observation | Label | Observing Template        | Science Target |
| :----------------- | :---- | :------------------------ | :------------- |
| 1                  |       | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging | (2) -alf-CMi   |
| 2                  |       | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging | (2) -alf-CMi   |
| 3                  |       | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging | (2) -alf-CMi   |
| 4                  |       | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging | (2) -alf-CMi   |
| 5                  |       | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging | (2) -alf-CMi   |
| 6                  |       | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging | (2) -alf-CMi   |
| 7                  |       | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging | (2) -alf-CMi   |
| 8                  |       | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging | (2) -alf-CMi   |
| 9                  |       | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging | (1) -alf-CMa   |
| 10                 |       | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging | (1) -alf-CMa   |
| 11                 |       | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging | (1) -alf-CMa   |
| 12                 |       | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging | (1) -alf-CMa   |
| 13                 |       | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging | (1) -alf-CMa   |
| 14                 |       | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging | (1) -alf-CMa   |
| 15                 |       | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging | (1) -alf-CMa   |
| 16                 |       | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging | (1) -alf-CMa   |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose to use JWST/MIRI coronagraphy to conduct a direct imaging and infrared excess search for terrestrial and cold gas giant planets around Sirius B, the closest white dwarf to our solar system. Given Sirius B's proximity (2.6 pc) and its high temperature (T = 26,000 K), JWST's unparalleled ability to achieve remarkable sensitivity enables the direct imaging of super-earth-sized planets near the outer edge of the habitable zone. This program will use the infrared excess and direct imaging detection techniques to enable detection of planets spanning from the Roche limit (0.004 au) to the Hill sphere (3.9 au). With just 16 hours of integration time, it will set the most stringent direct imaging limits on planets ever achieved by any observatory. Our program holds the potential to detect rocky planets and cold (>70K) gas giants—a feat unlikely to be possible until the next generation of observatories comes online decades from now. If a planet-like signal is detected, follow-up proper motion measurements or spectroscopy will confirm its planetary nature and provide a detailed characterization of its physical and atmospheric properties. This program could be JWST's singular chance to directly image rocky planets in a nearby system, offering profound insights into planetary evolution around post-main sequence stars and in binary systems.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Given the brightness of Sirius A, we propose to place it behind the four quadrant phase mask (4QPM) and perform reference differential imaging (RDI) on Sirius B. Procyon B will serve as our reference in two key ways: (1) as the reference PSF for RDI, and (2) to verify that our white dwarf models match measured infrared photometry, ensuring any IR excess detection is accurate and errors are well understood.

We used the JWST coronagraphic visibility tool and JWST ETC to setup and optimize our observation. We will conduct the observations with the following sequence:
1. Place the the four quadrant phase mask (4QPM) over Sirius A
2. Observe Sirius B in F1065C, F1140C, F1550C, and F2300C for 60 mins in each band.
3. Repeat the same observation with a 10 degree roll to enable background removal (60 min of integrations per band per roll for a total of 2 hours per band). The data will be background limited at larger separations, so this roll is critical to enabling maximum detection limits.
4. Repeat the same series of observations on Procyon A/B

We note that the angular separation of Sirius B and Procyon B in the middle of 2025 is 11.2" and 5", respectively. We require that the B component in both systems is not positioned near the linear boundaries between adjacent quadrants of the 4QPM coronagraphic mask. Using the known orbital parameters for Sirius B and Procyon B and the coronagraphic visibility tool, we added the required constraint to the APT to keep them within the center of the quadrant in the phase mask. Additionally, we require that the target is acquired in a different quadrant than the companion to avoid persistence on the detector which could impact our infrared excess measurement.

Despite using a coronagraph, both A components are among the brightest stars in the sky, so we must ensure that neither the residuals from the A components nor the B components saturate the detector. Using the ETC, we determined that 30 groups/int (360 int/exp) are needed for F2300C, 25 groups/int (580 int/exp) for F1550C, and 17 groups/int (820 int/exp) for F1065C and F1140C, resulting in 60 minutes of integration per roll, and remaining less than 60% saturation on the detector. All Sirius and Procyon observations are scheduled as non-interruptible blocks in the APT, with up to two days allowed between them, as the JWST PSF/WFE has been extremely stable over this timescale.