---
id: 7648
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging  MIRI/MRS  NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Emma Beasor"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "16.4/0.0"
program_title: "N6946-BH1: Fading following a failed supernova, or post-merger recovery?"
type: "GO"
---
# 7648 - N6946-BH1: Fading following a failed supernova, or post-merger recovery?
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7648
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label      | Observing Template                  | Science Target        |
| :--------- | :---------------------------------- | :-------------------- |
| MIRI       | MIRI Imaging                        | (1) NAME-N6946-BH1    |
| NIRCam     | NIRCam Imaging                      | (1) NAME-N6946-BH1    |
| MIRI MRS   | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) NAME-N6946-BH1    |

## ABSTRACT

Recent JWST imaging revealed a luminous infrared source at the location of failed supernova (SN) candidate N6946-BH1. While significantly fainter than the progenitor (13-25% of the bolometric luminosity), the spectral energy distribution (SED) is consistent with both a failed SN and a stellar merger or outburst event. Curiously, observations taken one month later in matching filters revealed a 50% flux reduction in the shortest MIRI filter (5.6m). The mid-IR fluxes also appear to resemble Case C Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbon (PAH) emission, typically produced when dust is irradiated by a UV field.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We are proposing to image the remaining infrared source remaining at the position of failed SN candidate N6946-BH1 with NIRCam and MIRI over two epochs. This will enable us to understand how the source changes in brightness across the SED with time, and will allow us to constrain the total dust mass of the system. Ultimately these observations will constrain the fate of BH1: has it formed a black hole, or is there a surviving star following a merger?

We are also requesting 10 hours of JWST time to obtain a MIRI MRS spectrum of the remaining source at the position of failed SN candidate BH1. The MRS spectrum will reveal whether or not there are PAH features present in the SED, and break the degeneracy between the merger and failed SN scenarios.