---
id: 7651
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Coronagraphy"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Jens Kammerer  Co-PIs: Laurent Pueyo"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "64.7/0.0"
program_title: "JWST-YSES: a Young Suns Exoplanet Survey to study the demographics of sub-Jovian planets around Sun-like stars and unveil the formation and evolution history of widely separated companions"
type: "GO"
---
# 7651 - JWST-YSES: a Young Suns Exoplanet Survey to study the demographics of sub-Jovian planets around Sun-like stars and unveil the formation and evolution history of widely separated companions
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7651
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label      | Observing Template           | Science Target                |
| :--------- | :--------------------------- | :---------------------------- |
| Target 1   | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (1) ASAS-J105605-6151.7       |
| Target 7   | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (7) CPD-63-2126               |
| Target 9   | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (9) 1RXS-J114542.7-573928     |
| Target 23  | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (23) CD-57-4328               |
| Target 25  | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (25) HD-304428                |
| Target 30  | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (30) ASAS-J114452-6438.9      |
| Target 2   | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (2) TYC-8240-182-1            |
| Target 14  | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (14) CD-51-6605               |
| Target 15  | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (15) ASAS-J122648-5214.8      |
| Target 20  | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (20) TYC-8237-1980-1          |
| Target 27  | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (27) CD-56-4401               |
| Target 29  | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (29) CD-55-4588               |
| Target 3   | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (3) 1RXS-J24830.1-594449      |
| Target 13  | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (13) 1RXS-J23834.9-591645     |
| Target 18  | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (18) CD-58-4463               |
| Target 21  | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (21) ASAS-J124547-5411.0      |
| Target 24  | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (24) ASAS-J123911-5454.9      |
| Target 26  | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (26) CPD-56-5307              |
| Target 10  | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (10) 1RXS-J134442.5-634758     |
| Target 19  | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (19) 2MASS-J13334410-6359345  |
| Target 4   | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (4) TYC-8265-229-1            |
| Target 5   | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (5) CD-41-7947                |
| Target 10  | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (10) 1RXS-J134442.5-634758     |
| Target 19  | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (19) 2MASS-J13334410-6359345  |
| Target 22  | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (22) V-V1257-Cen              |
| Target 28  | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (28) 2MASS-J13121764-5508258  |
| Target 6   | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (6) CD-69-1055                |
| Target 8   | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (8) 2MASS-J12205449-6457242   |
| Target 11  | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (11) 2MASS-J12163007-6711477  |
| Target 12  | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (12) CPD-64-1859              |
| Target 16  | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (16) ASAS-J122105-7116.9      |
| Target 17  | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (17) ASAS-J122410-6003.6      |

## ABSTRACT

As of now, the vast majority of wide separation giant planets around FGK-type hosts have been imaged around stars in the ~10–15 Myr Sco-Cen association or younger. To this date, the origin of this population of widely-separeted massive (>5 MJup) giant planets remains elusive. However, today JWST presents a unique opportunity to resolve this mystery, by probing the giant planet frequency for less massive (0.1-5 MJup) companions which only JWST can detect. This proposal aims to (1) measure the frequency of young long-period sub-Jovian exoplanets which still lacks observational constraints and (2) distinguish between in-situ formation via gravitational instability vs. formation via core accretion closer to the star followed by outward migration/scattering as the origin of the existing massive (>5 MJup) Sco-Cen giant planets. These goals will be achieved by searching for new 0.1-5 MJup giant planets around 30 Sun-like stars in the Sco-Cen association using NIRCam coronagrapy and comparing observations to planet population synthesis simulations. Should the core-accretion+migration scenario prevail, this proposal will uncover a large reservoir of wide separation sub-Jovian planets. On the other hand, if the existing massive Sco-Cen planets formed via gravitaional instability, this proposal will detect no new sub-Jovian planets because in-situ formation is extremely inefficient for these low-mass planets at wide separations from the star. As such, this proposal will provide the first demographic evidence for giant planet migration/scattering - or lack thereof - of giant planets orbiting wider than 10 au, and further populate the age-luminosity diagram for sub-Jovian planets.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This program is a self-referenced NIRCam coronagraphic imaging survey of a homogeneous sample of 30 young Sun-like stars in the Lower Centaurus Crux region. All observations are identical. As a self-referenced survey, this program does not include dedicated PSF reference observations and instead the science targets will be used as PSF references for one another, given that exoplanet detections are only expected around a small fraction of the targets. The observations are grouped into 5 sequences of 6 targets each (grouped based on proximity on the sky to minimize slew times), with each sequence observed back-to-back in a non-interruptible sequence for optimal PSF stability within each sequence. See Scientific Justification PDF for further justification of the self-referenced survey strategy.
All observations are identical except for the choice of the target. Each of the 30 targets is observed once in a single observation (i.e., only one orientation or roll angle per target). This provides an ideal dataset for a reference differential imaging (RDI) survey using principal component analysis PSF subtraction with a PSF library. ERS observations have shown that this outperforms angular differential imaging (ADI) techniques using roll subtraction.
NIRCam coronagraphic imaging is used with the 335R round mask, and filters F444W in LW and F200W in SW, which provide the best sensitivity to young giant planet companions. The round mask provides the best discovery space for new unknown companions around each target. One hour total exposure time per target provides sensitivity to planets down to 0.1-0.2 Jupiter masses for these young targets (5-15 Myr). All observations include astrometric confirmation images to precisely measure the location of the occulted star behind the coronagraph and for precise localization of any detected substellar companions, which is crucial for establishing common proper motion with a second epoch in case of any detections. All target stars are similar enough in brightness that identical TA and science exposure settings work for all of them, verified in ETC calculations.