---
id: 7675
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging  MIRI/LRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Prune August  Co-PIs: Lars Buchhave and Alexander Rathcke"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "38.4/0.0"
program_title: "Confirming a Tentative Terrestrial Atmosphere Detection on LHS 1478 b with JWST/MIRI"
type: "GO"
---
# 7675 - Confirming a Tentative Terrestrial Atmosphere Detection on LHS 1478 b with JWST/MIRI
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7675
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                    | Observing Template                     | Science Target |
| :----------------------- | :------------------------------------- | :------------- |
| LHS-1478 LRS 1           | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy       | (1) LHS-1478   |
| LHS-1478 LRS 2           | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy       | (1) LHS-1478   |
| LHS-1478 LRS 3           | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy       | (1) LHS-1478   |
| LHS-1478 LRS 4           | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy       | (1) LHS-1478   |
| LHS-1478 LRS 5           | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy       | (1) LHS-1478   |
| LHS-1478 F1500W_1        | MIRI Imaging                           | (1) LHS-1478   |
| LHS-1478_F1500W_2        | MIRI Imaging                           | (1) LHS-1478   |

## ABSTRACT

We have yet to definitively detect an atmosphere around a rocky exoplanet, and LHS 1478 b (R_p = 1.24 R_Earth, M_p = 2.33 M_Earth; Soto et al.
2021) is currently the most promising candidate. Initial observations from the Hot Rocks Survey (GO 3730) suggest tentative evidence of an
atmosphere, with JWST/MIRI 15um photometric data revealing a shallow eclipse inconsistent with a bare-rock, A_B = 0.1 Bond albedo blackbody at
3.1 sigma significance. However, inconsistencies between the two eclipse observations necessitate follow-up to confirm this result. Our proposed
program will provide follow-up observations with broader spectral coverage using MIRI LRS and additional observations at 15um to definitely
confirm or reject the presence of an atmosphere. If confirmed, this program would enable the first detection of a rocky planet atmosphere and allow
for subsequent characterization of its atmosphere, focusing on likely constituents such as CO2 and H2O. Conversely, in the event of no atmosphere,
this program would challenge the current atmospheric diagnostic methods based on single-band photometry and offer a unique opportunity to study
the composition and surface properties of rocky exoplanets. Either outcome will significantly advance our understanding of rocky planets orbiting M
dwarfs and guide future atmospheric studies.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will perform secondary eclipse observations of LHS 1478 b to measure its mid-infrared thermal emission spectrum. We request 38.4 hours of
observations with JWST/MIRI, split into five visits timed around secondary eclipse events with LRS as well as two visits in Imaging mode with the
F1500W photometric filter.

The duration of an eclipse event for LHS 1478 b is 42 minutes. Following a 3 to 1 baseline to eclipse time ratio, we include 1.4 hours of out-of-
eclipse observations in order to accurately measure the baseline flux. We also add an extra hour to account for the uncertainty around the starting
time of observations, as well as 45 minutes of settling time.

We use Pandexo-v3.0 to simulate our observations.
For MIRI LRS, we use the FASTR1 readout pattern with 32 groups/integration and 2647 integrations/exposure. This gives a total of 3.85 hours of
observing time per visit (5.5 total charged). MIRI LRS uses the SLITLESSPRISM mode without dithers.
For the MIRI F1500W observation, we use the FASTR1 readout pattern on the sub256 subarray, as was done in GO 3730 (PI Diamond-Lowe, Co-PI
Mendonca). We use 39 groups/integration and 1160 integrations/exposure. This also gives a total of 3.85 hours of observing time per visit (5.3 total
charged). We do not use a dither.

For the MIRI LRS observations, we will use the F1500W filter for a single target acquisition, with 4 groups, giving a SNR of 757 while staying at
57% of the saturation limit.