---
id: 7677
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Eros Vanzella  Co-PIs: Matteo Messa"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "17.4/0.0"
program_title: "Pushing the Faintest Limits: Extremely Low-Luminosity and and Pop III-like Star-Forming Complexes in the Early Universe"
type: "GO"
---
# 7677 - Pushing the Faintest Limits: Extremely Low-Luminosity and and Pop III-like Star-Forming Complexes in the Early Universe
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7677
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label        | Observing Template       | Science Target     |
| :----------- | :----------------------- | :----------------- |
| LAP2-bottom  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) LAP2-bottom    |
| LAP2-top     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (2) LAP2-top       |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose JWST NIRSpec/IFU spectroscopy of two extraordinarily faint and strongly lensed Ly-alpha emitters at z=5.663 and z=4.194, each straddling their respective critical lines. The primary target at z=5.663 (dubbed LAP2) is an exceptional ionizing source with a remarkably large Ly-alpha equivalent width (>320 A rest-frame) and an extremely faint ultraviolet magnitude (Muv > -11.6, delensed > 35). LAP2 remains undetected in all NIRCam bands, including stacked SW and LW images, suggesting an ultra-low stellar mass of < 10^4 Msun. Its identification as an isolated, low stellar mass star-forming complex within the first Gyr offers an unparalleled opportunity to investigate star formation in near-pristine conditions. The secondary target at z=4.194, also straddling its critical line, has Muv ~ -12.3 and is detected in NIRCam with a de-lensed size of <10 pc, potentially resembling a proto-globular cluster hosting massive O-type stars. This study will allow us to measure the metallicity of both sources and assess the presence of massive stars in such elusive systems by evaluating their ionizing photon production efficiency. These observations will expand (at least double) the sample of ultra-faint sources with these measurements which only JWST can perform, pushing the frontier of understanding toward Population III-like star formation conditions. The fortunate angular proximity of the two targets allows for simultaneous observation within the same IFU field of views.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The program aims to observe two Ly-alpha emitters straddling their respective critical lines in a strongly lensed field at z=4.194 and z=5.663 (the latter referred to as LAP2).

Based on the Ly-alpha fluxes, we will detect Balmer lines (and potentially other metal lines, if present). To optimize the search for these emissions, we will employ NIRSpec/IFU in the clear/prism mode, which covers the full spectral range from Ly-alpha to H-alpha. The low spectral resolution R~100 is appropriate for the scientific objectives of this proposal.

Observational strategy and depth:
The angular proximity of the two Ly-alpha arclets allows them to be captured within the same NIRSpec IFU field of view. However, due to the extension of the arclets, two slightly overlapping pointings are required. More than 90% of the spaxels will benefit from magnification factors exceeding ×50-100.
The sensitivity is calibrated to probe low metallicity conditions (Z < 0.01 Zsun) for both targets, 6.8h integration per pointing. We propose using PRISM/CLEAR with NRSIRS2, configured for 21 groups and 2 integrations. The dither pattern will be cycling with a small 8-point configuration.
The total requested NIRSpec IFU time is 17.4 hours, including overheads.