---
id: 7683
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/LRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Shubham Kanodia  Co-PIs: Nicole Wallack"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "22.5/0.0"
program_title: "A Parched Giant orbiting a Red Dwarf: Fact or Fiction?"
type: "GO"
---
# 7683 - A Parched Giant orbiting a Red Dwarf: Fact or Fiction?
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7683
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label    | Observing Template             | Science Target |
| :------- | :----------------------------- | :------------- |
| Eclipse1 | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) TOI-5205   |
| Eclipse2 | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) TOI-5205   |

## ABSTRACT

JWST has revealed the lowest water abundances ever seen for an exoplanet, in the mid M-dwarf hosted gas giant --- TOI-5205b. Given the presence of obvious star spot crossings in three JWST transits of TOI-5205b and clear impacts of stellar contamination on the transmission spectra, we propose to observe two secondary eclipses of TOI-5205b with MIRI/LRS. Our observations will either (I) independently confirm this extraordinarily low water abundance & validate existing transit light source (TLS) corrections, or (II) accurately estimate a higher water abundance, which will inform existing TLS models and benchmark new techniques for correcting against stellar contamination effects.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to observe 2 eclipses of TOI-5205b using MIRI/LRS. Using 252 groups per integration and 780 integrations per exposure, which will allow us to achieve an efficient observation. We will observe the 1.4 hour eclipse with 1 hour preceeding ingress and 1 post egress to allow for a substantial out of eclipse baseline. This will allow us to correct long term instrumental systematics and provide a precise out-of-eclipse baseline. We also pad the observation with 1.75 hours on either side of the secondary eclipse to account for the 3 sigma uncertainty on the eccentricity of the planet. We also include additional 45 minutes at the beginning of each of our observations that will be discarded to account for the initial ramp. Lastly, we also include a 60 minute buffer before the eclipses to allow for flexibility with scheduling.