---
id: 7686
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Elijah Mullens  Co-PIs: Ryan Challener"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "31.7/0.0"
program_title: "Brown Dwarf Broiler: Probing Chemical Quenching and Heat Redistribution in a Highly-Eccentric Brown Dwarf"
type: "GO"
---
# 7686 - Brown Dwarf Broiler: Probing Chemical Quenching and Heat Redistribution in a Highly-Eccentric Brown Dwarf
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7686
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template           | Science Target       |
| :---- | :--------------------------- | :------------------- |
|       | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) TYC-7052-1753-1 |

## ABSTRACT

JWST observations have begun to shed light on insufficiencies of the chemical networks and dynamical models we currently use to understand highly irradiated exoplanets and isolated brown dwarfs. Eccentric, high mass, transiting targets allow for a nature-given laboratory to study how interconversion timescales vary with changing levels of incident stellar flux, and therefore allow us to disentangle which processes dominate in high-mass substellar object atmospheres. TOI 2490 b is the most eccentric transiting brown dwarf in the brown dwarf desert and provides a high-mass comparison object to the highly eccentric hot Jupiter HD 89060 b, allowing us to bridge the exoplanet and brown dwarf population.
Our program will observe a partial phase-curve (26.385 hours total) using the NIRSpec G395H grism to obtain spectra from 2.87-5.27 microns, including both periastron passage and secondary eclipse. This wavelength range encompasses strong spectral features of the key carbon-bearing species (CH4, CO2, and CO) that are tracers of the physical and chemical processes, such as chemical quenching, we aim to track. The precision of G395H allows us to track their abundances over our time-series observation and test the favored reaction pathways for CH4-CO interconversion, and how much chemical timescales lag behind heating timescales. By observing secondary-eclipse, we will probe dynamical mixing and heat redistribution through eclipse mapping.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will observe a partial phase-curve (26.385 hours = 1 hour scheduling window + 2 hours before periastron passage + 18.355 hours from periastron passage to eclipse + 3.03 hour eclipse + 2 hours after eclipse) using the NIRSpec G395H grism in BOTS mode to obtain spectra from 2.87-5.27 microns, including both periastron passage and secondary eclipse. We will collect 70 groups per integration with 1483 integrations covering the entire duration. When including overheads, this results in a total charge time of 31.7 hours.
Phases were computed with ExoCTK with P = 60.3326 days, e = 0.779, w = 214.48 degrees, inclination = 89.2, target observation = secondary eclipse. Time spent prior to mid eclipse was set to 21.87 hours (from mid eclipse to beginning of periastron passage + two hours before periastron passage). We have a one-hour scheduling window.
For NIRSpec WATA target acquisition (TA) using the F110W filter, TOI~2490 will saturate the central pixel. Previous studies of the comparably-bright J ~ 10.663 star WASP-39 encountered similar saturation using the same TA configuration, but regardless succeeded in acquiring directly on WASP-39 (PID 1366). We therefore will acquire directly on TOI 2490 through the F110W filter.