---
id: 7722
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Alberto Torralba  Co-PIs: Jorryt Matthee"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "18.5/0.0"
program_title: "To catch an AGN: Ionizing Emission and AGN Activity of COLA1 in the Epoch of Reionization"
type: "GO"
---
# 7722 - To catch an AGN: Ionizing Emission and AGN Activity of COLA1 in the Epoch of Reionization
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7722
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                     | Observing Template                | Science Target                  |
| :------------------------ | :-------------------------------- | :------------------------------ |
| z6.6_G140M_G235M_PA254 | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (1) COLA1_photcat_C20_v3 |

---

## ABSTRACT

One of the main open questions about the Epoch of Reionization (EoR) is identifying the primary sources of ionizing photons. Direct detection of ionizing continuum (LyC) during the EoR is impossible due to total IGM absorption, so we rely on indirect methods, calibrated with lower-redshift observations or simulations. Rest-frame UV spectroscopy of EoR objects is key to identifying the main ionizers. COLA1, a highly luminous galaxy at z=6.6, stands out with its unusual double-peaked Ly-alpha profile. This feature is rare in the EoR, where the neutral IGM should absorb the blue peak, suggesting that COLA1 resides inside a highly ionized region. Previous NIRCam WFSS and photometric studies indicates that it is a strong LyC leaker, with a moderate overdensity around it. However, if star formation is the main source of UV emission, its compact UV size (<260 pc) would imply extreme star formation rate surface density. Moreover, COLA1's abnormal UV SED measured by NIRCam is poorly reproduced by models. These factors raise the question: does COLA1 host an AGN?
We propose deep rest-frame UV spectroscopy of COLA1 and four neighboring galaxies using NIRSpec MOS to achieve two goals: 1) determine if COLA1 hosts an AGN and assess its contribution to the UV luminosity, and 2) map the ionized region around COLA1 through the Ly-alpha emission of nearby galaxies. This will provide a detailed dissection of the UV emission mechanisms of a strong LyC leaker in the EoR, and a precise tomography of the ionized region around it. If confirmed, it would be the first case of a bright AGN significantly contributing to reionization, providing insights into the role of luminous sources in the EoR.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to obtain deep NIRSpec MOS spectroscopy of COLA1, a very luminous (F115W = 25.88) object at z=6.6, along with four galaxies in its environment selected based on their [OIII] doublet emission in NIRCam WFSS data (GO #1933). Additionally, we will include ~25 filler [OIII] emitters at z=5.5-6.9, detected in the same way, and ~5-10 sources with photometric redshifts from the COSMOS2020 catalog located outside the NIRCam program's field-of-view. We will use medium resolution (R1000) grating spectroscopy for all targets, utilizing the G140M/F070LP and G235M/F170LP grating/filter pairs, with a total exposure of 7 hours for each.

Our main goal is to measure rest-frame UV emission lines in COLA1, and to cover the Lyman-alpha and [OII] (372.8 nm) emission lines for COLA1's neighbors and all filler targets. Deep NIRCam imaging in F115W, F150W, F200W, and F356W, as well as WFSS/F356W data, are available for all targets except those from COSMOS2020. We have defined wavelength masks in the input catalog to ensure that: 1) COLA1 is fully covered from Lyman-alpha to the red end in G140M and coverage of at least MgII, [NeV] and [OII] in G235M; and 2) all targets have Lyman-alpha coverage in G140M and [OII] coverage in G235M (+1000 km/s from the systemic wavelength based on their measured redshifts).

All targets will be observed in a single configuration per grating, within a single visit. For each grating, we will use the NRSIRS2 readout mode, offering a good balance between data rates and quality, with 19 groups per integration and 2 integrations per exposure. We will apply a three-shutter nodding pattern, repeating each configuration 3 times to mitigate random shutter failures, resulting in total exposure times of 25,209.6 seconds per grating (7 hours). The requested exposure times are motivated by the goal of measuring moderately low EW UV lines in COLA1 (down to EW=3 Angstrom), while being able to detect Ly-alpha lines (down to EW ~ 25 Angstroms) from fainter companions (median F115W~27.5). We also request short (160 s) confirmation image for quality assessment and data reduction.