---
id: 7728
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS  NIRSpec/FS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Raghvendra Sahai"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "19.5/0.0"
program_title: "Investigating a New Evolutionary Channel for Dying Stars"
type: "GO"
---
# 7728 - Investigating a New Evolutionary Channel for Dying Stars
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7728
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                           | Observing Template                  | Science Target                |
| :------------------------------ | :---------------------------------- | :---------------------------- |
| MIRI: J055102.44-685639.1       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) J055102.44-685639.1       |
| PRISM: J055102.44-685639.1      | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy     | (1) J055102.44-685639.1       |
| MIRI: J051920.18-722522.1       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) J051920.18-722522.1       |
| PRISM: J051920.18-722522.1      | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy     | (2) J051920.18-722522.1       |
| MIRI: J050257.89-665306.3       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) J050257.89-665306.3       |
| PRISM: J050257.89-665306.3      | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy     | (3) J050257.89-665306.3       |
| MIRI: J045755.05-681649.2       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) J045755.05-681649.2       |
| PRISM: J045755.05-681649.2      | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy     | (4) J045755.05-681649.2       |
| MIRI: J045555.15-712112.3       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (5) J045555.15-712112.3       |
| PRISM: J045555.15-712112.3      | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy     | (5) J045555.15-712112.3       |

---

## ABSTRACT

The demise of most stars in the Universe has traditionally been thought to occur as a result of heavy mass-loss (with rates as high as le-4 Msun/yr) on the Asymptotic Giant Branch (AGB), when the stars are very luminous (5000-10,000 Lsun) and cool (Teff < 3000 K). However, recently, an exciting new evolutionary channel has been identified from a study of evolved stars in the Magellanic Clouds (MCs). This channel operates when the primary star is much less luminous, i.e., still on the Red Giant Branch (or RGB), likely as a result of a strong binary interaction. The most prominent Galactic representative of this process is the Boomerang Nebula (also the coldest object in the Universe): in it the mass-loss that stripped the primary star of its envelope was driven at an extreme rate (1e-3 Msun/yr) and expansion velocity (165 km/s), much higher than found for any AGB star, and occurred over a relatively short period (3500 yr). The binary companion most likely merged with the core of the primary, producing a jet-driving central dusty disk/torus around the merged object. We propose a JWST study of a select sample of post-RGB objects in the LMC to obtain 5-28 micron spectra that are vital for probing the properties of the mass-ejecta and thus constrain the ejection process. Our results will help constrain existing theoretical models of strong binary interactions for producing post-RGB objects; important diagnostics include the mass of material ejected in the equatorial plane, compared to that in a shell, and the chemical composition of the ejecta.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose 19.5 hours of JWST time to investigate the near and mid-infrared dust excesses that have been found around a sample of post-RGB stars in the LMC. The evolution of very luminous (L ~ 6000 Lsun) AGB stars is controlled by heavy mass-loss via dusty winds, thus mid-IR excesses are to be expected. However, a new class of lower luminosity, post-RGB stars (L < ~ 1000 Lsun) that also exhibit dust excesses have recently been identified in the LMC and SMC using optical spectroscopy and Spitzer photometry. For these stars, strong interactions with a compact binary companion during the RGB phase is believed to remove most of the primary's stellar envelope, but with a significant fraction of the ejecta still residing in a disk. Existing theoretical models of strong binary interactions for producing pRGB objects such as CE evolution, or grazing envelope ejection (GEE) are still in their infancy. The focus of this proposal is to investigate this exciting new evolutionary channel for producing proto-planetary nebulae (PPNe) that REQUIRES binary interaction, but which occurs when the primary star is still on the Red Giant Branch (or RGB). Detailed observational studies of this class of objects to elucidate the properties of their mass-ejecta will provide much-needed constraints for theoretical efforts to understand binary stellar interactions.

We propose to determine the physical and chemical properties of the mass ejecta of 5 post-RGB stars in the LMC by using NIRSpec/PRISM and MIRI/MRS to obtain 0.6-28 micron spectra of the sources. The SEDs of our target post-RGBs were modeled using the 1-D radiative transfer code DUSTY, all of which show significant near and mid-IR excess. The modeled SED were used as inputs to the JWST ETC to estimate the exposure times and SNR.

Since our objects are all expected to be point sources in the near-IR, we elect to not carry out target acquisition and instead rely on JWST's pointing using the Gaia DR2 coordinates of the guide stars to place the objects within the field. We use NIRSpec in the low resolution mode (PRISM) where we can obtain complete wavelength coverage from 0.6 to 5.3 microns. This region is sensitive to thermal emission from hot dust, scattered light from the central star, and may also show weak molecular bands due to, e.g., H2O and CO, arising in the inner regions of the disk. We adjusted our observations to obtain a SNR ~ 100 in this mode. This resulted in groups/integration ranging from 10 for J055102.44-685639.1 to 35 for J045755.05-681649.2. We use the S200A1 slit and corresponding subarray (SUBS200A1) and NRSRAPID readout pattern.

For MIRI, we will use TA as the sources may be extended. We use all three grating positions for MRS spectroscopy and the FAST readout pattern throughout. The exposure times (number of groups and number of dithers) were decided based on the considerations that we achieve a SNR ~ 20 at 5 microns and a SNR ~ 5.0 or greater at 22 microns. The region of 5-20 microns is especially crucial to understanding the chemistry and spectral characteristics of our sources as it is the region of the 10 and 18 micron silicate emission and also the region of prominent PAH emission. J045755.05-681649.2 is the faintest target in our list; even for this object, we achieve a SNR ~ 20 at 5 microns in a modest amount of exposure time. The SNR is greater at longer wavelengths thanks to silicate emission and circumstellar dust, with the maximum being > 110 at 10 microns. For this source we used 360 groups per integration with a 4-point dither to gain the required amount of exposure time while keeping individual integrations below 1000 s. J050257.89-665306.3 is the next faintest, and we have also chosen a 4-point dither for it with approximately 700 s per integration. For the other three sources we have chosen 2-point dithers with appropriate groups per integration to achieve the required sensitivity; 2-point dithers are acceptable since we are not concerned with PSF oversampling.

Because these are relatively crowded fields, we have elected to do simultaneous imaging at 7.7 microns (F770W) to allow for accurate astrometric reconstruction. 20 groups per integration were selected to allow SNR ~ 10 on 17th magnitude (Vega) WISE W1 sources (of which there are many in the imaging field) but still allow usable information on 12th magnitude WISE W1 sources.