---
id: 7729
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Guido Roberts-Borsani"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "67.2/0.0"
program_title: "Unveiling Early Cosmic Enrichment: Direct Metallicities in z>6 Galaxies from Deep JWST Spectroscopy"
type: "GO"
---
# 7729 - Unveiling Early Cosmic Enrichment: Direct Metallicities in z>6 Galaxies from Deep JWST Spectroscopy
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7729
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label    | Observing Template          | Science Target      |
| :------- | :-------------------------- | :------------------ |
| GOODS-N  | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (1) msa_targets_gdn |
| GOODS-S  | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (2) msa_targets_gds |

## ABSTRACT

What are the metal contents of galaxies, how quickly did they form, are strong-line diagnostics sufficiently robust to measure them? JWST has extended the frontier of galaxy metallicity studies, enabling measurements of strong diagnostics lines out to z~12. However, tracing the build up of metals across the first billion years remains extremely challenging and current constraints are sorely lacking. At z>6, simulations yield contrasting predictions due to different feedback physics, while observationally only 17 objects observed with JWST have benefited from gold-standard, electron temperature-based metallicities. The vast majority of objects have instead relied on inferences using uncertain Oxygen and Balmer strong-line calibrations anchored to small numbers of 2<z<9 Te-based measurements. Comparisons between those calibrations indicate large discrepancies (up to 0.5-1 dex), casting serious doubt on the robustness of metallicities inferred thus far and indicating a need for stronger constraints.

This proposal aims to address these issues by determining direct metallicities for a statistical sample of confirmed z>6 galaxies in the GOODS fields, through deep NIRSpec G395M/F290LP spectroscopy of [O III]4963 and [O II]3728,3730. With a ~4x increase in detections compared to current samples, we will: (i) Establish the most robust R23 and O32 calibrations to date, and explore [Ne III]-based indices for applications at z>10. (ii) Utilize those calibrations to obtain robust metallicities in >500 sources at z=6-13 for mass-metallicity characterizations. (iii) Examine evolutionary trends and characterize the intrinsic scatter of galaxy metallicities over the first billion years.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Pinpointing the onset and evolution of chemical enrichment over the first billion years represents a major goal of extragalactic astronomy and a key tracer of ISM evolution in primordial sources. Strong-line indices (e.g., R23 =[O III]4960,5008+[O II]3727,3729 / Hbeta, O32 =[O III]5008 / [O II]3727,3729) represent the most practical and realistic path towards obtaining a census of galaxy metallicities at z>6, given the strength and detection rates of the relevant lines in JWST spectra. However, even the latest JWST calibrations benefit from only a handful of gold standard, temperature-based ("direct") metallicities, owing to the dearth of auroral emission line measurements at z>6 (17 sources with [OIII]4364 to date). As such, current high-z calibrations suffer from significant scatter given small sample sizes (typically 15-20 sources) that extend over large redshift ranges (2<z<9) and trace varying ISM conditions.

In this proposal we target a large sample (>75) of confirmed z>6 galaxies in the GOODS-N and GOODS-S fields, where [O III]4364 (and [O II]3727,3729) detections are enabled for accurate Oxygen abundances using direct-method measurements. Each of the sources already benefit from strong-line measurements allowing us to make predictions on expected [O III]4364 line flux using realistic metallicity assumptions. We will obtain ~12.6 hrs of deep NIRSpec G395M/F290LP MSA spectroscopy for four independent pointings, two in each GOODS field amount to a total of 50.3 hrs science time, or 67.2 hrs including overhead. The chosen setup of an NRS readout pattern, 39 grps/int, 1 int/exp, and 27 exposures with a 3-shutter dither pattern allows us to achieve a peak S/N ratio >3sigma for integrated fluxes down to 1E-19 erg/s/cm2. The observations proposed here represents a unique, optimized, and sorely needed data set to achieve a census of galaxy metallicities within the first billion years.