---
id: 7760
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Eric Perlman"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "2.7/0.0"
program_title: "Testing the gravitational lens origin of SAV events -- MIRI/MFS IFU observations of PKS 1413+135"
type: "GO"
---
# 7760 - Testing the gravitational lens origin of SAV events -- MIRI/MFS IFU observations of PKS 1413+135
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7760
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                               | Observing Template                       | Science Target          |
| :---------------------------------- | :--------------------------------------- | :---------------------- |
|                                     | MIR Spectroscopy                         | (1) PKS1413+135         |
| MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy      | (2) PKS1413+135_BKG     |

*(Note: The 'Label' column for the first observation (Folder 7) is blank in the provided table. For the second observation (Folder 8), the 'Label' and 'Observing Template' columns contain the same text, "MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy", as per the source document.)*

---

## ABSTRACT

Time-domain surveys are an exciting new frontier, having discovered tidal disruption events, gamma-ray bursts and fast radio transients. Symmetric achromatic variability (SAV) events are a new class of new class of variability events, identified in 7 AGN out of 1830 monitored regularly by the Owens Valley Radio Observatory. SAV events have lightcurves that are time-symmetric and achromatic. They have been modeled by gravitational milli-lensing, which can occur when relativistically moving jet components in a background AGN, move through caustics created by 10^3-10^6 solar mass features in a foreground galaxy. Confirmation of the lensing nature of SAV could give us a powerful new tool, allowing future multiwaveband observations to reveal <0.01pc scale structure in distant galaxies.
We propose to test this idea with MIRI/MRS IFU observations of PKS 1413+135, which has had four SAV events between 1992-2015. PKS 1413+135 is one of the most puzzling blazars known, due to uncertainties about its host galaxy, redshift and nature. The apparent host galaxy, a

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to obtain mid-infrared spectra and imaging of PKS 1413+135. The most important goal of the mid-IR spectroscopy is to obtain complete coverage between 5-28 $\mu$m so that we can obtain both emission lines from the AGN, as well as PAH and other molecular features due to the cloud(s) that may be the lensing screen in the z=0.247 spiral. Discovery of AGN lines at z>0.247 will test the gravitational lensing model of Vedantham et al. (2017a) and Peirson et al. (2022). The most important goal of the imaging is to re-examine whether the AGN is de-centered in the spiral, as shown at 3 sigma in HST/NICMOS images.
We have therefore chosen to use MIRI's MRS mode, using all four spectral channels to obtain complete spectral coverage. We have used the ETC to calculate the exposure times so that a S/N ~ 15-20 per pixel is achieved (using the Spitzer spectrum as a seed), and we have followed the recommendations of the JWST documentation as far as choosing the detector configuration. The goal of the simultaneous imaging is to both place in context the MRS spectra and also test the conclusion of Perlman et al. (2002) that the blazar is not centered within the z=0.247 spiral host galaxy. We have chosen to obtain images in F560W, F770W and F1000W. The F560W and F1800W imaging cover the continuum, while the F1280W imaging will be in the middle of the silicate dust feature at z=0.247. We have thus used the ETC to estimate the exposure time required to obtain a quick image that should show both the galaxy and the AGN. In the mid-IR, dust has very little effect.