---
id: 7772
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Els Peeters"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "49.8/0.0"
program_title: "Interstellar PAHs: separating the neutrals from the ions"
type: "GO"
---
# 7772 - Interstellar PAHs: separating the neutrals from the ions
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7772
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
1.  **List of Labels, Corresponding Observing Template, and Science Targets (OBSERVATIONS Table)**

| Folder     | Observation | Label                      | Observing Template                 | Science Target           |
| :--------- | :---------- | :------------------------- | :--------------------------------- | :----------------------- |
| NGC 2023   | 2           | NGC2023-MIRI-MRS           | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) NGC2023              |
|            | 17          | NGC2023-BKG-MIRI-MRS       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (9) NGC2023-BKG          |
| NGC 1333   | 4           | NGC1333-MIRI-MRS           | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) NGC1333              |
|            | 18          | NGC1333-BKG-MIRI-MRS       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (10) NGC1333-BKG         |
| vdb133     | 5           | vdb133-NIRspec-IFU         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy           | (3) VDB133               |
|            | 6           | vdb133-BKG-NIRspec-IFU     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy           | (4) VDB133-BKG           |
|            | 7           | vdb133-MIRI-MRS            | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) VDB133               |
|            | 8           | vdb133-BKG-MIRI-MRS        | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) VDB133-BKG           |
| vdb111     | 9           | vdb111-NIRspec-IFU         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy           | (5) VDB111               |
|            | 10          | vdb111-BKG-NIRspec-IFU     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy           | (6) VDB111-BKG           |
|            | 11          | vdb111-MIRI-MRS            | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (5) VDB111               |
|            | 12          | vdb111-BKG-MIRI-MRS        | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (6) VDB111-BKG           |
| vdb101     | 13          | vdb101-NIRspec-IFU         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy           | (7) VDB101               |
|            | 14          | vdb101-BKG-NIRspec-IFU     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy           | (8) VDB101-BKG           |
|            | 15          | vdb101-MIRI-MRS            | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (11) VDB101-visit-15-copy |
|            | 16          | vdb101-BKG2-MIRI-MRS       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (12) VDB101-BKG-visit-15-copy |

---

## ABSTRACT

JWST observations are dominated by strong emission bands at 3.3, 6.2, 7.7, 8.6, and 11.2 um, referred to as the Aromatic Infrared Bands (AIBs) and generally attributed to polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs). PAHs play a key role in several physical and chemical processes highly relevant for large-scale astrophysical processes such as star and planet formation and galaxy evolution.

These physical and chemical processes strongly depend on the PAH charge distribution. The PAH charge distribution also governs the spectral characteristics of the AIB emission spectra. However, we are currently unable to derive a consistent quantitative value for the PAH ionization fraction from observations. This in turn affects the quantitative role PAHs play in the Universe, e.g. an incorrect PAH ionization fraction strongly influences the heating rate of the neutral ISM.

We request NIRSpec IFU and MIRI MRS observations of a sample of reflection nebulae illuminated by central stars of a range of spectral types. This will include the first good quality, medium spectral resolution spectrum of PAH emission from a single charge state, i.e. neutral PAHs. We will separate the spectroscopic properties of neutral and cationic PAHs and systematically calibrate these in terms of the radiation field. This program will thus provide observational templates of purely neutral and purely cationic AIB emission as well as the molecular properties of their carriers. We will directly quantify the PAH ionization fraction from the observations which will allow us to assess methods currently employed to derive the PAH ionization fraction and to quantitatively validate PAH models and thus the PAH hypothesis!

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

To achieve the science goals of this project we will use the NIRSpec and MIRI MRS IFUs to study a sample of 5 reflection nebulae: vdB 101, vdB 111, vdB 133, NGC 2023, and NGC 1333. For NGC2023 and NGC1333, we request MIRI MRS observations at the location of existing NIRSpec IFU observations.

We will use NIRSpec IFU with the G395M/F290LP disperser-filter combination to cover the 2.87-5.27 wavelength range at a resolution of ~1000, and all four MIRI MRS IFU channels and their respective sub-bands.

We employ the “4-Point” Dither pattern for NIRSpec IFU and the “Extended Source, 4-Point ALL" dither pattern for the MIRI MRS observations.

For MIRI MRS, we will use the FASTR1 readout pattern for the brightest sources (NGC 1333, NGC 2023) and the SLOWR1 readout pattern for the fainter sources (vdB 133, vdB 101 and vdB 111). For NIRSpec IFU, we will use the NRSIRS2 readout pattern for vdB 133, vdB 101 and vdB 111.

We request dedicated off-source background exposures in both instruments using the same configuration as the on-source observation. We will perform Leakcal exposures for all the NIRSpec IFU observations, except for the background dedicated observations. The Leakcal exposures will be set to the exact exposure parameters and configuration as the main science regions.

Sources vdb 101 and vdb 111 have been assessed as "Background Limited observations" and therefore a ``Background-Limited" special requirement is selected with the "Background no more than the 10th percentile above minimum" option for both NIRSpec and MIRI MRS IFU observations, based on the guidelines in the JWST documentation.

Following JWST documentation recommendations, we perform MIRI-MRS simultaneous imaging to improve the astrometric solution of individual MRS exposures.

For sources where schedulability based on the Visit Planner allowed, we set a V3 PA requirement between the NIRSpec and MIRI-MRS observations, to ensure maximum overlap between their field of views.

---