---
id: 7782
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging  NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Kevin Luhman"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "44.0/5.2"
program_title: "A Spectroscopic Survey of the Orion Nebula Cluster: Protostars, Proplyds, and Planetary Mass Objects"
type: "GO"
---
# 7782 - A Spectroscopic Survey of the Orion Nebula Cluster: Protostars, Proplyds, and Planetary Mass Objects
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7782
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :---- | :--------------------------- | :------------- |
| onc1  | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (1) mpt        |
| onc2  | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (1) mpt        |
| onc3  | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (1) mpt        |
| onc4  | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (1) mpt        |
| onc5  | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (1) mpt        |
| onc6  | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (1) mpt        |
| onc7  | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (1) mpt        |
| onc8  | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (1) mpt        |

## ABSTRACT

The Orion Nebula Cluster (ONC) is the richest and densest nearby star-forming cluster. As such, it is uniquely suited for imaging and multi-object spectroscopy with JWST. During Cycle 1, brief observations with NIRSpec provided spectra for 22 brown dwarf candidates identified with HST/WFC3, 21 of which were confirmed. Those targets included two of the coolest and least massive known proplyds and a strong candidate for a protostellar brown dwarf. Meanwhile, NIRCam images were obtained for a 11'x7.5' field in the center of the ONC, which have been used to identify >200 brown dwarf candidates that lack spectroscopy, the faintest of which could have masses of 1-2 Jupiter masses. This sample includes dozens of candidates for protostars and proplyds at substellar masses. We propose to use NIRSpec to obtain PRISM spectra (1-5 um) of most of the brown dwarf candidates (~200) from the NIRCam images of the ONC. We will use these spectra to confirm the youth and cool nature of the candidates, search for ice absorption features from protostars, and search for strong emission lines from proplyds. Through these observations, we seek to significantly increase the numbers of spectroscopically confirmed protostellar brown dwarfs and brown dwarf proplyds (beyond the current values of ~1 and ~2-3) and obtain the best available measurement of the mass function and minimum mass of brown dwarfs, all of which are important for testing theories for the formation of brown dwarfs. Our survey will also make it possible to investigate the origin of the abundant unidentified hydrocarbon that has been detected by NIRSpec in planetary mass objects in the Perseus star-forming region.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The APT file contains placeholders for 24 MSA configurations for NIRSpec that are distributed across 8 MPT observing plans/visits. The final configurations will be submitted after aperture position angles are assigned by the observatory. Each placeholder configuration uses the PRISM disperser, NRSRAPID readout pattern, 13 groups, 9 integrations, and 3 dithers, corresponding to a total exposure time of 4070 s. The numbers of groups and integrations may be adjusted to be appropriate for the range of magnitudes of the targets in each final configuration. During each NIRSpec exposure, coordinated parallel images with NIRCam will be obtained with the SHALLOW2 readout pattern, three groups, and two integrations through a pair of filters from among F140M, F162M, and F182 in the short wavelength channel and F360M and F444W in the long wavelength channel.