---
id: 7792
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Gabriele Cugno  Co-PIs: Sierra Grant and Polychronis Patapis"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "7.9/0.0"
program_title: "Does the apple fall far from the tree? Comparative chemistry between a CPD and its host disk"
type: "GO"
---
# 7792 - Does the apple fall far from the tree? Comparative chemistry between a CPD and its host disk
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7792
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
|---|---|---|
| (empty) | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) V-GQ-Lup |

---

## ABSTRACT

GQ Lup B, an accreting companion surrounded by a circumplanetary disk (CPD), presents a unique opportunity to study i) the CPD chemistry, ii) the comparison between the chemistry in the CPD and the primary, and iii) potentially the dynamical interaction between the two. While extensive efforts have focused on the dust component of this CPD in both the infrared and mm, the gas remains uncharted. We will now leverage the power of MIRI/MRS to fill this gap.
Shallow Cycle 1 data, focused on the bright primary, serendipitously revealed molecular gas signatures in GQ Lup B's CPD through cross-correlation with a reference spectrum of an an isolated object with a molecule-rich disk. This molecular detection is significant, meaning that (at least some of) the molecules in the isolated disk are also present in GQ Lup B's CPD; however, the SNR is not sufficient to determine which species are responsible for the correlation or what their properties are. Our proposed observations, optimized for the faint emission from GQ Lup B, will allow us to not only determine the molecular inventory, but with state-of-the-art retrieval tools, determine the gas conditions — temperature, column density, and emitting area — in a CPD for the first time. By probing the molecular composition of both circumstellar and circumplanetary disks, we can do comparative chemistry in the same system to explore the impact that they have on each other (e.g., companion-induced radial drift). Finally, by accessing the CPD chemistry we can investigate a potentially moon-forming environment, shedding light on the chemical diversity seen in the moons in our own Solar system, such as water-rich Europa vs. carbon-rich Titan.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We plan to observe the circumplanetary disk (CPD) around the forming companion GQ Lup B with MIRI/MRS to detect spectral features associated with molecular gas and dust.
Wwe do Target Acquisition on the main star which will be at the center of the field of view. We will use 4 point dithering treating the scene as a point source and not an extended source.
We repeat the observations from Cycle 1 with deeper ramps and longer integration times. Along the ramp up to 3 pixels could saturate, but this is not going to create any issue with the study of the companion emission.