---
id: 7793
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS  NIRSpec/FS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Jacqueline Faherty"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "40.0/0.0"
program_title: "A Deep Dive Spectroscopic Study of an Auroral Emitting World"
type: "GO"
---
# 7793 - A Deep Dive Spectroscopic Study of an Auroral Emitting World
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7793
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label          | Observing Template                | Science Target          |
| :------------- | :-------------------------------- | :---------------------- |
| 1935-1546      | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy   | (1) J193518.59-154620.3 |
| W1935-1546     | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy   | (1) J193518.59-154620.3 |
| W1935 MRS      | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) J193518.59-154620.3 |

## ABSTRACT

In this JWST proposal, we will obtain NIRSpec and MRS spectra of the cold brown dwarf WISEP J193518.59-154620.3 in order to characterize a spectroscopic example of an auroral emitting extrasolar world. The methane emission seen in a Cycle 1 program on this source is also found in the G395H spectra of planetary objects (e.g. Jupiter, Uranus, Pluto) and expected in extrasolar planets therefore the detailed characterization we propose crosses substellar, exoplanet, and planetary sub-fields. At a Spitzer [3.6] band mag of ~18.1, W1935 is impossibly faint for ground based observatories therefore JWST is the only facility that can complete our science agenda. The power of this proposal will be in answering the following questions: (1) Is there a forest of CH4 and H3+ emission in W1935 like that seen in solar system objects (e.g. Jupiter, Uranus, Neptune) observed with the same NIRSpec G395H set-up? (2) Do the W1935 emission characteristics extend into the mid infrared where a retrieved model predicts we will see more emission from CH4 and NH3+? (3) Will modeling the spectrum of W1935 lead to conclusive evidence about whether the 300K temperature inversion in local thermodynamic equilibirum (LTE) is the correct interpretation of the cause of the emission or if a non-LTE (NLTE) process linked somehow to a magnetic interaction with the atmosphere might be at play? The NIRSpec and MRS spectra of W1935 would be the first ever spectroscopic study of an auroral emitting world beyond our own and would showcase the power of JWST at atmospheric characterization crossing from extrasolar worlds into the solar system.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This proposal is to obtain NIRSpec G395H spectra along with MIRI MRS spectra for the cold brown dwarf WISEP J193518.59-154620.3 (W1935). W1935 has a cycle 1 G395H spectra which demonstrated methane emission and this proposal will re-visit to acquire further signal on the source as well as extended wavelength coverage to fully characterize its spectral energy distribution. W1935 has a precise parallax and proper motion for accuracy in positioning the source on the slit. We will acquire the target using the default WATA mode with the CLEAR filter for NIRSpec and the F1000W filter for MIRI spectroscopy. We will dither along the slit using a 3-point pattern for NIRSpec G395H, a 5-point pattern for prism and a 4-point pattern for MIRI MRS. We use the NRSRAPID readout for NIRSPec and SLOWR1 readout for MIRI.