---
id: 7802
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Houda Haidar"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "14.1/0.0"
program_title: "Dust in shocks: The missing link in AGN feedback"
type: "GO"
---
# 7802 - Dust in shocks: The missing link in AGN feedback
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7802
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template                | Science Target     |
|-------|-----------------------------------|--------------------|
|       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (5) ESO-428-14-BG  |
|       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) ESO-428-14     |
|       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (6) NGC-5929-BG    |
|       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) NGC-5929       |
|       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (7) Mrk-1066-BG    |
|       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) Mrk-1066       |
|       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (8) Mrk-573-BG     |
|       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) Mrk-573        |

---

## ABSTRACT

Active Galactic Nuclei (AGN) reside at the centres of most massive galaxies and are thought to be responsible for regulating galaxy evolution through feedback processes. While highly luminous AGN can exhibit multiple feedback mechanisms, which are hard to de-couple, low-luminosity AGN (LLAGN) are simpler systems, with mechanically (not radiatively) dominated energy input into the interstellar medium (ISM). A number of LLAGN are found to host subrelativistic radio jets that are double sided and collimated with their extended narrow line region (NLR). In many of these systems, the interaction between the jet and the ISM can drive shocks, which can influence the physical conditions in the NLR and, in some cases, even destroy the dust. Intriguingly, several observations have detected dust within shocked regions. While various hypotheses have been proposed to explain how dust survives in shocks, constraining dust properties in these hostile environments remains the missing link for accurately modeling AGN feedback and defining its efficiency.

Mid-infrared (MIR) emission from dust grains serves as a powerful diagnostic tool to assess the extent of grain processing, revealing whether dust survives shocks, is partially destroyed, or undergoes significant alterations. Leveraging the unique spatial resolution and sensitivity of JWST's MIRI/MRS instrument, we propose to study a sample of nearby radio-selected LLAGN to capture dust survival (or not) in shocked regions and constrain the key properties governing grain processing. This will have important implications for AGN feedback and the dust lifecycle, both of which are crucial for understanding galaxy evolution.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We request MIRI/MRS observations for a radio-selected sample of four low luminosity active galactic nuclei (LLAGN), over the full range (4.9-28.5 um) using all the four channels. All targets in our sample exhibit extended radio emission (~100-400 pc from the nucleus) that is fully covered by the smallest FOV (3.2"x3.8", Channel 1) with a single central pointing. Since the southern hot spot in Mrk 573, at ~400 pc, lies near the edge of the Channel 1 FOV, we request a 2-column, 1-row mosaic with 10% overlap to ensure complete coverage, specifically capturing [Fe II]5.34um - a key shock tracer. For science exposures, we request a 4-point dither for optimal PSF sampling, and a recommended 2-point dither for the background exposures. We also request simultaneous imaging (for all targets, except ESO 428-G14, for which imaging exists) with filters F560W, F1000W, and F1500W and imager subarray SUB256. To ensure sufficient visibility, we do not restrict the PA for background observations.