---
id: 7806
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Patrick Kavanagh  Co-PIs: Josefin Larsson"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "18.6/0.0"
program_title: "The infancy of a supernova remnant: Probing ejecta dynamics, dust evolution, and the emerging compact object in SN 1987A with JWST"
type: "GO"
---
# 7806 - The infancy of a supernova remnant: Probing ejecta dynamics, dust evolution, and the emerging compact object in SN 1987A with JWST
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7806
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                      | Observing Template              | Science Target             |
| :------------------------- | :------------------------------ | :------------------------- |
| MRS - BKG                  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) SN1987A-BKG-SE         |
| MRS                        | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) SN-1987A               |
| NIRSpec IFU - G140H        | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy        | (3) SN-1987A-nirspec       |
| NIRSpec IFU - G235H/G395H  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy        | (3) SN-1987A-nirspec       |
| NIRSpec IFU - G140M/G395M | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy        | (3) SN-1987A-nirspec       |

---

## ABSTRACT

SN 1987A in the Large Magellanic Cloud is the closest observed supernova (SN) in centuries and provides a truly unique opportunity to probe various aspects of SN physics and evolution. SN 1987A has been continuously scrutinized as it changes significantly year after year providing new discoveries and insights into the evolution of SNe in general. Previous JWST observations revealed the onset, and early evolution of the interaction between the rapidly expanding, metal-rich inner ejecta and the circumstellar equatorial ring (ER), a new phase in the evolution of the remnant. The observations also revealed the first clear evidence of the compact object created in the explosion. The goals of this proposal are to determine the metal-rich ejecta structure and composition in the interaction regions, and monitor the emerging compact object and evolution of dust in the outer ejecta. JWST NIRSpec and MIRI give access to numerous important diagnostic lines for the ejecta-ER interaction, the ejecta morphology, and is the only telescope that has unambiguously detected emission associated with the compact object. The science objectives rely on analyzing time variations compared to the previous JWST observations. By Cycle 4, the ejecta and the interaction regions will have evolved substantially in the two years since the last JWST observations. The proposed observations also hold great legacy value for the community. SN 1987A has been observed regularly by all major telescopes since the very beginning, which has created a unique observational record of the evolution of a SN into a SN remnant across the electromagnetic spectrum.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

NIRSpec/IFU and MIRI/MRS will be used to observe SN1987A at a third epoch with continuous spectral coverage from 1 to 28 microns.

NIRSpec/IFU observations use the G140H/F100LP, G235H/F170LP, G395H/F290LP, and G140H/F070LP with a 4-point dither on the SMALL CYCLING pattern. The high resolution gratings are required to disentangle all the emission components, including the compact object. Observations with G140M/F100LP G395M/F290W disperser/filter combinations with a 4-point dither on the SMALL CYCLING pattern are taken to to cover the wavelength gaps of G140H and G395 which include the [Fe I] 1.44 micron line and the continuum near the [Ca V] 4.16 micron line, crucial to our science goals.

The telescope PA is constrained based on the Cycle 2 observation to 65.5 (+-10) degrees so that the leakcal from Cycle 2 observations of SN 1987A can be used to assess contamination by nebulosity in this region. Point source contamination is easily removed either with the updated outlier rejection in the pipeline or manual masking. The readout pattern used is NRSIRS2RAPID for all NIRCAM exposures.

MIRI/MRS observations use the SHORT, MEDIUM and LONG dispersers to obtaining the full 4.9-28 micron coverage with a 4-point dither on the EXTENDED SOURCE pattern. The SLOWR1 readout pattern is used with 1 integations of 49 groups at each dither position across all dispersers on each detectors. A dedicated backgorund to the south of SN1987A is taken to subtract from our science exposures and correct for detector effects such as warm pixels and residual dark current. A 4-point dither on the EXTENDED SOURCE pattern is used with a reduced number of integrations compared to the science observations, namely 1 integrations of 20 groups at each dither, which is sufficient characterise and remove the background. SLOWR1 is necessary to avoid data excess exceeding the middle threshold.

The MIRI/MRS on-source and background observations are to be carried out in a non-interruptible sequence to ensure the background is representative of the source field.
The MIRI/MRS and NIRSpec/IFU observations are ‘Grouped within 14 days' to minimise variability.

The blind pointing accuracy of JWST is sufficient for this programme so no TA is requested. SN 1987A is in the JWST continuous viewing zone.