---
id: 7813
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Richard Cartwright"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "14.6/0.0"
program_title: "The origin of CO2 in the Uranian system and possible geologic activity at Ariel"
type: "GO"
---
# 7813 - The origin of CO2 in the Uranian system and possible geologic activity at Ariel
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7813
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label             | Observing Template     | Science Target |
| :---------------- | :--------------------- | :------------- |
| Ariel Trailing    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) Ariel      |
| Umbriel Trailing  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (2) Umbriel    |
| Titania Trailing  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (3) Titania    |
| Oberon Trailing   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (4) Oberon     |

---

## ABSTRACT

Uranus' moons Ariel, Umbriel, Titania, and Oberon have surfaces rich in CO2 ice, and they could have subsurface saline oceans, especially Ariel. At the estimated peak surface temperatures of these moons (80-90 K), CO2 ice is volatile and should sublimate and migrate to their winter poles (20-30 K). Over time, CO2 is gradually lost due to Jeans escape and photolysis. The continued presence of CO2 indicates ongoing replenishment, either from endogenic outgassing or by radiolytic production via charged particle bombardment. Furthermore, volatile transport models suggest that the Uranian moons experience seasonal atmospheric density spikes near equinox as their cold and dark winter poles are exposed to sunlight, driving rapid sublimation of seasonal CO2 ice caps, temporarily ballooning their predicted, but yet-to-be-detected, exospheres. These seasonally-enhanced exospheres are likely very short lived, shrinking to low background levels in early spring. Ariel, however, has a young surface with large-scale fissures that might be conduits to its interior, and it exhibits some of the strongest CO2 (and CO) bands yet detected on an icy moon. Consequently, Ariel might have a sizable exosphere, sustained by venting of CO2 and CO from its interior. Cycle 4 coincides with late northern spring in the Uranus system (subsolar lat. >68°N), long after a density spike from a devolatilized CO2 cap would have dissipated. The detection of a dense exosphere at Ariel would therefore support ongoing outgassing. We will observe these moons with NIRSpec IFU to investigate the origin of CO2 ice on all four moons (G235H) and determine whether Ariel has a geologically-sustained exosphere (G395H).

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to make one observation of Ariel with NIRSpec IFU (G395H) and one observation each of Ariel, Umbriel, Titania, and Oberon with NIRSpec IFU (G235H), for a grand total of five NIRSpec IFU observations. All five observations will target the trailing hemispheres of these moons to measure CO2 ice on their surfaces and CO2 and CO gas in Ariel's exosphere. All exposure time estimates were made using the NIRSpec ETC, with uploaded reflectance models for these four moons. We require observations to be scheduled during JWST's leading FOR in order to keep the bright and extended disk of Uranus away from NIRSpec's MSAs. These observing requirements are included under the "Solar System Target Window" tab in the APT file and in the "Special Requirements" section of the technical case.