---
id: 7814
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging  NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Adam Muzzin  Co-PIs: Danilo Marchesini and Katherine Suess"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "259.8/127.0"
program_title: "MINERVA: Unlocking the Hidden Gems of the Distant Universe and Completing HST and JWST’s Imaging Legacy with Medium Bands"
type: "GO, Treasury"
---
# 7814 - MINERVA: Unlocking the Hidden Gems of the Distant Universe and Completing HST and JWST’s Imaging Legacy with Medium Bands
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7814
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                        | Observing Template | Science Target        |
| :--------------------------- | :----------------- | :-------------------- |
| COSMOS-1 Mosaic              | MIRI Imaging       | (3) COSMOS-1          |
| COSMOS-2 Mosaic              | MIRI Imaging       | (4) COSMOS-2          |
| GOODS-N: NIRCam+MIRI F1      | NIRCam Imaging     | (41) GOODS-N-MEDIUM01 |
| GOODS-N: NIRCam+MIRI F2      | NIRCam Imaging     | (42) GOODS-N-MEDIUM02 |
| GOODS-N: NIRCam+MIRI F3      | NIRCam Imaging     | (43) GOODS-N-MEDIUM03 |
| GOODS-N: NIRCam+MIRI F4      | NIRCam Imaging     | (44) GOODS-N-MEDIUM04 |
| GOODS-N: NIRCam+MIRI F5      | NIRCam Imaging     | (45) GOODS-N-MEDIUM05 |
| GOODS-N: NIRCam+MIRI F6      | NIRCam Imaging     | (46) GOODS-N-MEDIUM06 |
| GOODS-N: NIRCam+MIRI F7      | NIRCam Imaging     | (47) GOODS-N-MEDIUM07 |
| AEGIS1: MIRI+NIRCam          | MIRI Imaging       | (23) AEGISMIRI1       |
| AEGIS2: MIRI+NIRCam          | MIRI Imaging       | (24) AEGISMIRI2       |
| AEGIS3: MIRI+NIRCam          | MIRI Imaging       | (25) AEGISMIRI3       |
| AEGIS4: MIRI+NIRCam          | MIRI Imaging       | (26) AEGISMIRI4       |
| AEGIS5: MIRI+NIRCam          | MIRI Imaging       | (27) AEGISMIRI5       |
| AEGIS6: MIRI+NIRCam          | MIRI Imaging       | (28) AEGISMIRI6       |
| AEGIS7: MIRI+NIRCam          | MIRI Imaging       | (29) AEGISMIRI7       |
| AEGIS8: MIRI+NIRCam          | MIRI Imaging       | (30) AEGISMIRI8       |
| AEGIS9: MIRI+NIRCam          | MIRI Imaging       | (31) AEGISMIRI9       |
| AEGIS10: MIRI+NIRCam         | MIRI Imaging       | (32) AEGISMIRI10      |
| UDS-1 Mosaic                 | MIRI Imaging       | (1) UDS-1             |
| UDS-2 Mosaic                 | MIRI Imaging       | (2) UDS-2             |
| UDS-2 Mosaic Repeat of Tile-13 | MIRI Imaging       | (50) UDS-2-Tile-13    |
| UDS-2 Mosaic Copy of Tile-22 | MIRI Imaging       | (51) UDS-2-Tile-22    |

---

## ABSTRACT

The deep imaging capability of JWST/NIRCam has revolutionized our understanding of the distant universe, but most extragalactic imaging in the key "cosmic windows" has been limited to broad-band filters with low spectral resolution (R = 4-5). This limitation has hindered our ability to resolve key features in galaxy SEDs, such as the Lyman/Balmer breaks and strong emission lines, leading to challenges in interpreting many results. We propose to obtain 8-filter medium-band imaging, along with F1280W and F1500W MIRI parallels, in the primary HST/JWST fields (PRIMER-UDS, PRIMER-COSMOS, CEERS/AEGIS, JADES-GOODS-N). This will double the total JWST filter coverage in these fields to more than 20 bands and triple the spectral resolution to R~15. By increasing the surveyed area nearly 10-fold compared to existing medium-band programs, we will significantly reduce the effects of cosmic variance and uncover rare populations hiding in existing deep-field catalogs. These observations will allow us to: 1) efficiently identify and characterize galaxies with unusual SEDs including z>12 candidates, high-redshift Balmer breaks, metal-poor extreme emission line galaxies, and extremely red/dusty sources, 2) improve stellar mass and star-formation rate density measurements at 2 <z<10 by factors of 2-4, and 3) create resolved maps of stellar mass and star formation across 10 Gyr of cosmic time to model galaxy growth in two dimensions. In addition to these science returns, these data will enhance all future science derived from these legacy fields with improved photometric redshifts and stellar masses and serve as JWST's lasting multiwavelength photometric legacy.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This program is an 8 filter (4 SW + 4 LW) NIRCam medium band imaging program of four of the major extragalactic "cosmic windows". These fields are PRIMER-COSMOS, PRIMER-UDS, CEERS-AEGIS and JADES-GOODS-N which are four of the five HST-CANDELS legacy fields. Specificically, the filters F140M, F162M, F182M and F210M are used on the SW, and F250M, F300M, F360M and F460M are used on the LW. The program also has associated MIRI parallels that are primarily in the F1280W and F1500W bands, although in some locations where those data exist it obtains new F560W or F1800W imaging. The total area covered by NIRCam imaging is ~548 square arcmin and the total area covered by MIRI is ~ 288 square arcmin.

All four fields already contain 7 - 9 filter NIRCam broadband imaging and 2 - 6 band MIRI imaging parallels from the PRIMER, CEERS and JADES surveys. There is additional MIRI data in F1000W, F1500W and F2100W from the MEGA survey in CEERS, and in F1000W and F2100W from the COSMOS-3D survey in PRIMER-COSMOS. The goal of this program is to augment those legacy datasets with higher spectral-resolution imaging in order to sample galaxy spectral energy distributions (SEDs) to 3x better resolution. This significant increase in resolution opens up the possibility of identifying new and/or exotic stellar populations that cannot be resolved by broadbands, and also returns a factor of 4 improvement in photometric redshift uncertainties and castastophic failure rates, as well as a factor of 2 improvement in stellar mass uncertainties. This allows computation of the stellar mass function without large systematic uncertainties. In order to maximize overlap between the broadband and MIRI imaging from the previous programs, and obtain true "multi-color" SEDs, the program uses the identical observational setup as those programs, i.e., identical observational strategy, dithers, detector readouts, and PA requirements, but employs different filter choices.

The typical on-sky exposure time in each filter in NIRCam is ~28 minutes and reaches a 5sigma point-source limit in F300M of 28.1 mag with approximately similar depths in other medium bands. The exposure time varies slightly across the PRIMER mosaics, as with the broadbands. The exposure time in the medium bands is similar to the broadbands. Previous surveys and simulations show that while this makes the medium bands approximately 0.2 - 0.6 mag shallower than equivalent-wavelength broadbands, the improvement in quantities such as photometric redshifts from increased spectral resolution and wavelength coverage outweighs using equlvalent exposure time to go deeper on fewer medium bands.

By using the same observing setup as previous programs, the proposed MIRI parallels land identically on previous MIRI parallels and this creates the opportunity to obtain at minimum 4 filter imaging in all regions (F770W, F1280W, F1500W, F1800W), and as much as 8 filter coverage in certain regions where more MIRI data already exists. Because half as many filters are used in MIRI, the typical on-sky exposure times per filter are approximately double that of NIRCam, ~ 56 - 60 minutes per filter. The MIRI integrations are formally slightly longer than the NIRCam in PRIMER and CEERS as MIRI is formally used in prime in order to match the previous APT layout.

Combining the existing and proposed NIRCam data with existing HST data results in a treasury photometric survey with a total of 22 -30 space-based filters (depending on field) with imaging covering 0.4 microns - 21 microns.