---
id: 7824
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Wolfgang Brandner"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "12.9/0.0"
program_title: "Search for giant planets around white dwarfs with intermediate-mass progenitors in the nearby Hyades cluster"
type: "GO"
---
# 7824 - Search for giant planets around white dwarfs with intermediate-mass progenitors in the nearby Hyades cluster
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7824
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label         | Observing Template | Science Target    |
| :------------ | :----------------- | :---------------- |
| WD0352 roll1  | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) WD0352+096    |
| WD0352 roll2  | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) WD0352+096    |
| WD0406 roll1  | NIRCam Imaging     | (2) WD0406+169    |
| WD0406 roll2  | NIRCam Imaging     | (2) WD0406+169    |
| WD0421 roll1  | NIRCam Imaging     | (3) WD0421+162    |
| WD0421 roll2  | NIRCam Imaging     | (3) WD0421+162    |
| WD0425 roll1  | NIRCam Imaging     | (4) WD0425+168    |
| WD0425 roll2  | NIRCam Imaging     | (4) WD0425+168    |
| WD0431 roll1  | NIRCam Imaging     | (5) WD0431+126    |
| WD0431 roll2  | NIRCam Imaging     | (5) WD0431+126    |
| WD0437 roll1  | NIRCam Imaging     | (6) WD0437+138    |
| WD0437 roll2  | NIRCam Imaging     | (6) WD0437+138    |
| WD0438 roll1  | NIRCam Imaging     | (7) WD0438+108    |
| WD0438 roll2  | NIRCam Imaging     | (7) WD0438+108    |

---

## ABSTRACT

What is the incidence of planets around intermediate mass stars? What are their astrophysical properties? How do they survive the post-main sequence evolution?

We aim to address these key questions with highly sensitive JWST/NIRCam observations requiring only a modest amount of telescope time. Our sample consists of seven white dwarfs in the nearby Hyades open cluster. These white dwarfs had intermediate mass main-sequence progenitors with masses between 2.8 and 3.6 solar masses. The white dwarfs make ideal targets as i) planetary orbits did widen adiabatically during the stellar AGB phase by a factor of 4 to 5 (e.g. from 5 to 25 au), and ii) the small size and resulting low luminosity of the white dwarfs greatly alleviates the contrast requirements for a direct planet detection. New detections will add to the growing number of known exoplanets in the Hyades. At effective temperatures of 200K, any "white dwarf planet" will also provide an essential link between the considerably warmer (Teff>700K) giant planets imaged thus far around nearby young stars, and the cooler (Teff=90 to 100 K) giant planets in the solar system. This combined with the well known ages and metallicity of the Hyades will provide new benchmarks for atmospheric and evolutionary planet models, and place comparative planetology on a much more solid footing. The program will establish new constraints on the formation and evolution of planetary systems around intermediate mass stars.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose NIRCam imaging observations in F210M and F460M of seven Hyades white dwarfs.

The observations do NOT employ the coronagraphics masks as i) the white dwarfs are relatively faint in the infrared (mAB_F460M typically ~ 17 mag), and ii) the contrast requirements are relatively modest (delta mag in F460M < 10 mag for angular separations > 500mas). All observations will be carried out in full frame mode with the science target in the center of the field of view of NIRCam B3. The standard sub-pixel dither pattern is used with 2 dither positions. To facilitate angular differential imaging, each target will be oberved at two roll angles, resulting in a time requirement of about 1.8 hr of telescope time per target.

The observations will be sensitive to detect giant planets at angular separations larger than 0.5 arcsec (corresponding to typical semimajor axis of 20 to 25 au) in orbit around these WDs. The observations in F460M will be sensitive to reach sub-Jupiter masses, while the observations in F210M will provide color (and hence temperature) information for planets more massive than 2 Jupiter masses, and provide effective means to distinguish between planet candidates and background sources like field stars or galaxies. A modest saturation of the center of the point spread function of the brighter white dwarfs in F210M will not impact the data analysis.