---
id: 7827
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/LRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Rubina Kotak  Co-PIs: Luc Dessart"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "19.9/0.0"
program_title: "Looking into the core of the explosions of massive stars"
type: "GO"
---
# 7827 - Looking into the core of the explosions of massive stars
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7827
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label   | Observing Template              | Science Target |
| :------ | :------------------------------ | :------------- |
| 24ggi   | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) 2024ggi    |
| 24iss   | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) 2024iss    |
| 24ahv   | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) 2024ahv    |
| 23ixf   | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (8) 2023ixf    |
| 23rve   | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (9) 2023rve    |

## ABSTRACT

The physics governing the core-collapse supernova phenomenon is only indirectly constrained. Yet, knowledge of the yields of heavy elements synthesised in supernovae is a crucial ingredient in many areas of astrophysics. However, such measurements are challenging: the innermost regions -- where the heavy elements reside -- are only visible several hundred days after the explosion, when the ejecta have become optically thin, but the supernova has become faint. Thus, ground-based observations are generally unfeasible. The excellent sensitivity of JWST/MIRI finally allows us a chance to carry out such measurements, but only for the nearest of supernovae. We propose to seize a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity afforded by the fortuitous occurrence of nearby supernovae to take snapshots of the innermost regions of the explosions arising from massive stars and allowing us to directly measure yields of important species from lines that are only available in the mid-IR region. This is a crucial first step towards exploring the parameter space spanned by core-collapse supernovae and the stars or stellar systems that give rise to them. Remarkably, such datasets do not exist for the variety of massive star supernova subtypes, and there is no prospect of deferring this exercise to future years. With our progam of MIRI observations we will take the first steps in this direction. With targets that have excellent ancillary data, including information on the progenitor star, a modest investment of JWST time will lead to the creation of datasets with true legacy value.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We request MIRI-LRS observations of a small sample of core-collapse supernovae. The idea is to provide a The above strategy ensures that we can access key spectral diagnostics, monitor their evolution, allowing us to robustly determine elemental masses and compare with predictions of explosion models of massive stars.