---
id: 7833
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Andrew Vanderburg  Co-PIs: Mary Anne Limbach"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "19.8/0.0"
program_title: "Planet Authentication in White-dwarf Systems (PAWS): Revealing the Demographics of Exoplanets Orbiting White Dwarfs"
type: "GO"
---
# 7833 - Planet Authentication in White-dwarf Systems (PAWS): Revealing the Demographics of Exoplanets Orbiting White Dwarfs
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7833
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
### 1. List of Labels, Observing Template, and Science Targets (OBSERVATIONS Table)

| Observation Folder | Label | Observing Template | Science Target        |
|--------------------|-------|--------------------|-----------------------|
| 1                  |       | MIRI Imaging       | (1) WD1748            |
| 2                  |       | MIRI Imaging       | (2) WD0752            |
| 3                  |       | MIRI Imaging       | (3) WD0839            |
| 4                  |       | MIRI Imaging       | (4) LAWD-25           |
| 5                  |       | MIRI Imaging       | (5) EGGR-250          |
| 7                  |       | MIRI Imaging       | (7) SCR-J0821-6703    |
| 9                  |       | MIRI Imaging       | (9) G-227-28          |
| 10                 |       | MIRI Imaging       | (10) LP-726-1         |
| 11                 |       | MIRI Imaging       | (11) UCAC4-398-010797 |
| 12                 |       | MIRI Imaging       | (12) VB-3             |
| 14                 |       | MIRI Imaging       | (14) EGGR-350         |
| 15                 |       | MIRI Imaging       | (15) EGGR-199         |
| 16                 |       | MIRI Imaging       | (16) EGGR-436         |

---

## ABSTRACT

Understanding how post-main-sequence stellar evolution affects exoplanet populations is a key question in the field today, but so far, relatively few planets have been confidently detected around white dwarfs. Recent JWST observations have detected numerous planet candidates in white dwarf systems, but these discoveries require additional observations before they can be confirmed. We request MIRI imaging observations of an unbiased, volume-limited sample of 16 nearby white dwarfs with directly imaged planet candidates from Cycle 2 JWST observations. Our additional MIRI observations will let us measure each candidate's proper motion and distinguish real planets from background contaminants. Our program will result in the confirmation of numerous giant planet candidates (likely including some of the coldest exoplanets ever imaged) and a first measurement of the occurrence rate of giant planets around white dwarfs. Based on main-sequence planet occurrence rates, we expect to confirm 5 +/- 2 planets in our sample (with 99.6% probability of detecting at least one planet). If our actual number of detected planets differs from this estimate significantly, it would suggest that our understanding of post-main-sequence planetary evolution is incomplete.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will collect MIRI imaging for 16 white dwarf systems using the same filters and exposure times as in the first epoch: F2100W: 12 min, F1800W: 5 min, and F770W: 1 min. A 4-point cycling dither pattern will be employed to mitigate bad pixels and enable background correction, consistent with the first epoch of observations. This consistent approach ensures the detection of the same sources at the same SNR that was achieved in the first epoch and gives multiple independent checks (in each filter) on the proper motion measurements. The charged time for this program, including overheads, is 24.1 hours.

Due to the proximity of the white dwarf systems in the sample, all exhibit high or very high proper motion (up to 3.6 arcsec/year). The white dwarfs in this sample will have shifted on the detector by 2-65 pixels between the two epochs. Using PSF fitting, we are capable of measuring the positions of the faintest exoplanet targets within the sample to <0.4 pixels. Therefore, with a two-year baseline between the epochs we can achieved >5 sigma detection of proper motion even for the faintest candidates in the field of view.

Since there are currently no high-precision distortion maps for the MIRI 18 and 21 micron imagery, we will constrain the PA of the second epoch of observation to match the first (+/-1 degree). This ensures that the lack of a high-fidelity distortion correction does not compromise our ability to conduct high-precision proper motion measurements. Additionally, keeping the PA consistent ensures that we capture the same candidates at wide angular separations near the edge of the field of view, which might otherwise be cut off the detector if the field rotation differs from the first epoch.