---
id: 7847
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Matthew Hedman"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "20.1/0.0"
program_title: "Saturn's E ring in 2025: A rare opportunity to observe material from inside Enceladus"
type: "GO"
---
# 7847 - Saturn's E ring in 2025: A rare opportunity to observe material from inside Enceladus
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7847
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label          | Observing Template         | Science Target |
| :------------- | :------------------------- | :------------- |
| NIRSpec Ansa 1 | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy   | (3) WestAnsa   |
| NIRSpec Ansa 1 | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy   | (3) WestAnsa   |
| NIRCAM Ansa 1  | NIRCam Imaging             | (1) Saturn     |
| NIRCAM Ansa 2  | NIRCam Imaging             | (1) Saturn     |

---

## ABSTRACT

Saturn's faint and diffuse E ring is composed primarily of particles erupted from Saturn's moon Enceladus. This ring material therefore consists of tiny samples of the interior of an ocean world, making the composition of these particles of high astrobiological interest. During Cycle 4, JWST has the rare opportunity to observe this ring almost exactly edge-on, enabling both NIRSpec and NIRCam to obtain data with the highest possible signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) for the next 15 years. NIRSpec IFU spectra of the brightest part of the E ring will clarify the carbon content of the particles erupted by Enceladus. Meanwhile, deep NIRCam images of the entire E ring at multiple wavelengths will constrain how efficiently material from Enceladus is transported throughout the Saturn system.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to observe Saturn's E ring with NIRSpec and NIRCam when the opening angle to the rings during two different times in November/December 2025 when each ansa of the E ring is completely free of bright moons (Mimas, Enceladus, Tethys, Dione, Rhea, Hyperion, Iapetus and Phoebe) and can be viewed at a very low opening angle.

We propose to target each ansa of the brightest part of the E ring (i.e. the ansa of Enceladus' orbit) with NIRSpec IFU using the PRISM configuration and four-point dithers. Integration times were chosen based on ETC calculations using Earth-based measurements of the ring's brightness. Each ansa will be observed for an exposure time of 11672 seconds or 3.3 hours, yielding a charge time of 5.2 hours apiece.

We also propose to observe the entire ring system during both of the above time periods using FULL NIRCam frames with four dithers. Each observation will target Saturn, which will ensure that both ansa of the E ring will be captured in the NIRCam FOV. Images will be taken with the following three filter pairs: F070W/F277W, F115W/F356W and F200W/F444W. Exposure times are based on ETC calculations using earth-based measurements of the ring's brightness. Each image will use a total exposure time of 3392 seconds, yielding a charge time per ansa of 5 hours.