---
id: 7849
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/LRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Sarah Moran  Co-PIs: Lili Alderson"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "46.1/0.0"
program_title: "Meeting their Match: Measuring Cloudy Hot Jupiter Counterparts to Understand the Silicate Cloud Regime with JWST/MIRI"
type: "GO"
---
# 7849 - Meeting their Match: Measuring Cloudy Hot Jupiter Counterparts to Understand the Silicate Cloud Regime with JWST/MIRI
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7849
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label               | Observing Template              | Science Target |
| :------------------ | :------------------------------ | :------------- |
| HATS-72b transit    | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) HATS-72b   |
| Kepler-12b transit 1 | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) Kepler-12  |
| Kepler-12b transit 2 | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) Kepler-12  |
| HAT-P-32b           | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) HAT-P-32   |

---

## ABSTRACT

Clouds are a fundamental component of all atmospheres, and as such they are key to understanding the physics, chemistry, and overall atmospheric evolution of planets. Silicate clouds are thought to be the most common kind of clouds for a large range of – but not all – hot Jupiter atmospheres. With JWST/MIRI, we are now able to measure the direct absorption of previously inaccessible silicate bonds that manifest from 8-10 microns due to a range of silicate compositions (SiO2, MgSiO3, Mg2SiO4, etc.). Detections of silicate clouds have already been made in transmission spectroscopy studies of 3 hot Jupiters; however, these detections do not necessarily fit the prevailing theories about where silicate condensation is expected to occur.

To test whether the current cloud detections are indicative of wider trends for such planets or due to something unique to the conditions of the 3 objects with detected silicate clouds, we will observe the MIRI/LRS transmission spectra of 3 "counterpart" hot Jupiters. These counterparts have similar masses and equilibrium temperatures as those with existing silicate cloud detections, as temperature and mass are the expected first-order determinants of cloud formation and persistence. Our observations will enable us to begin understanding the specific regimes in which silicate clouds dominate, and unlock deeper physical insights into their formation and evolution. These insights will lead to a better understanding of hot Jupiters and brown dwarfs, which also contain such clouds, as well as connect optical to mid-infrared spectral information about aerosol particles for a whole range of worlds.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will use MIRI/LRS to measure the 5-12 micron transmission spectra of three exoplanets for a total of 49.1 hours. We will observe one transit each of HATS-72b and HAT-P-32b, and two transits of Kepler-12b to ensure sufficient signal to detect the relevant cloud species in each atmosphere.
Each target presents multiple transit opportunities throughout Cycle 4.

MIRI/LRS is the only instrument, on the ground or in space, which is capable of obtaining high-precision spectra at the wavelengths required to distinguish different cloud species. Furthermore, each of our targets is designed to compare to an existing MIRI/LRS detection and therefore, it is the only possible instrument to perform this study.

Each observation is designed to cover the entire transit event and pre- and post-transit baseline, allowing for a 1-hour window for schedulability. We have also ensured that at least an hour of pre-transit baseline is observed to account for the settling of the known detector ramp at the start of MIRI TSO observations. In total, each observation lasts for 2x the transit duration of the planet plus an additional hour. This ensures that should our observations begin at the end of the scheduling window, sufficient pre-transit baseline will be obtained to detrend for any settling ramp.

We calculated the necessary phase constraints using ExoCTK, providing a 1hr window for schedulability.

Target acquisition can be performed on each of our targets. Using the JWST ETC we set the group number for TA such that a minimum SNR=150 is achieved using the F560W filter.

None of our targets require position angle orient constraints.

We set the saturation to 0.65 of the ETC full well and will bin the observations in time to ensure we reach the needed signal-to-noise in the reddest wavelengths where the cloud features are prominent.

For HATS-72b, we require 116 groups and 1488 integrations.
For Kepler-12b, we require 596 groups and 399 integrations. Due to the length of the observation, we have split the integrations over two exposures, see below for details.
For HAT-P-32b, we require 109 groups and 1490 integrations.

Due to the number of groups and integrations required to cover the full transit event of Kepler-12b we need to split our observations into two exposures. This results in the split between exposures occurring during the transit event just after ingress and will not disrupt our science goals even if starting at the end of the 60-minute phase window.