---
id: 7874
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Stacey Alberts  Co-PIs: Katherine Suess"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "35.8/0.0"
program_title: "Dust After Quenching: A Mid-Infrared View into the Hidden ISM of Distant Massive Galaxies"
type: "GO"
---
# 7874 - Dust After Quenching: A Mid-Infrared View into the Hidden ISM of Distant Massive Galaxies
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7874
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
## 1. List of Labels, Observing Template, and Science Targets (OBSERVATIONS table)

| Observation | Label | Observing Template              | Science Target      |
| :---------- | :---- | :------------------------------ | :------------------ |
| NIRSpec IFU |       |                                 |                     |
| 1           |       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy        | (9) SMILES-22-NS    |
| 2           |       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy        | (10) SMILES-120-NS  |
| 3           |       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy        | (11) SMILES-172-NS  |
| 4           |       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy        | (12) SMILES-10-NS   |
| 5           |       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy        | (13) SMILES-1536-NS |
| 6           |       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy        | (14) SMILES-1646-NS |
| MIRI MRS    |       |                                 |                     |
| 7           |       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) SMILES-22       |
| 8           |       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) SMILES-120      |
| 9           |       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) SMILES-172      |
| 10          |       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) SMILES-10       |
| 11          |       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (5) SMILES-1536     |
| 12          |       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (6) SMILES-1646     |
| 13          |       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (7) Background      |
| 14          |       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (8) Background-2    |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose a JWST study of the interstellar medium (ISM) and dust properties in six massive quiescent galaxies at z~0.5, providing a novel view into post-quenching conditions beyond the local universe. Infrared observations have revealed unexpected reservoirs of dust and molecular gas in local quiescent galaxies, challenging the traditional picture of quenching as a rapid depletion of the ISM. Early JWST/MIRI imaging results have shown that mid-infrared excesses are surprisingly common even in more distant galaxies, suggesting that dust may persist through the quenching process at the peak epoch of star formation. To uncover the origin of this mid-infrared excess, we require spatially-resolved, spectroscopic diagnostics of both dust and any residual star formation. Here, we propose to leverage the unprecedented sensitivity of JWST's NIRSpec and MIRI IFUs to map polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) at 3.3, 6.2, 7.7, and 11.3 microns and examine their relationship with residual star formation traced by Pa-alpha. These observations will reveal dust properties, sources of dust heating, and the state of the ISM, shedding light on the quenching process. Our targets are at the highest redshift where the 11.3 PAH, critical for constraining grain sizes, can be observed in the sensitive MRS channel 3, providing our best possible view into the ISM conditions in quenching galaxies beyond the local universe. This program will offer critical insights into how the link between dust and star formation evolves during the quenching process.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This proposal will target 6 z~0.5 extended, quenched galaxies with the NIRSpec IFU (G235M/F170LP and G395M/F290LP) and MIRI MRS (all gratings). Our exposure times are aimed at detecting the Paa emission line in F170LP, the 3.3um PAH in F290LP and the weakest features (either the 11.3um PAH or the 4um continuum) in the MRS. Our targets are extended with diameters that range from 2-6"; as such, they will sometimes fill the IFU FOVs. Because they are extended, the blind pointing accuracy is sufficient and we will not use Target Acquisition.

For NIRSpec IFU, we use the NRSIRS2RAPID readout mode to maximize sensitivity of faint extended emission. As our sources are extended, we use a 4pt dither for better spatial sampling and to mitigate detector effects, cosmic ray hits and MSA leakage (the field our targets are in is not crowded). The surface brightness of our targets is sufficient or the source is compact enough to use master background subtraction from off-target pixels, therefore we do not require dedicated backgrounds for background subtraction.

For MIRI MRS, we will obtain spectroscopy in all three sub-bands. We use the SLOWR1 mode to avoid data volume issues and adopt a 4 pt dither. As our targets are extended, we group our sources by similar exposure times and homogenize their number of groups. We have two target groups with the same Ngroup and we obtain two dedicated background with the same Ngroup. As we are doing spatially resolved studies, this enables pixel-by-pixel background subtraction. We will also obtain simultaneous imaging in F1130W using FASTR1 for improve astrometric corrections. We request that our two groups of targets + background be linked in a non-interruptible sequence (bkg taken first) and we request restricted PA ranges (outside micrometeorite avoidance zones) that place the simultaneous imaging back on existing MIRI imaging from the SMILES survey.