---
id: 7875
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Michael Zhang  Co-PIs: Arjun Savel and Maria Steinrueck"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "19.8/0.0"
program_title: "The only known atmosphere on a rocky exoplanet?"
type: "GO"
---
# 7875 - The only known atmosphere on a rocky exoplanet?
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7875
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label     | Observing Template               | Science Target |
| :-------- | :------------------------------- | :------------- |
| Eclipse 1 | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) -rho01-Cnc |
| Eclipse 2 | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) -rho01-Cnc |
| Eclipse 3 | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) -rho01-Cnc |

## ABSTRACT

55 Cnc e is so far the only rocky exoplanet with convincing--though not uncontroversial--evidence of an atmosphere, in the form of a MIRI/LRS eclipse 8 sigma shallower than that of an airless zero-albedo world. It is also the only exoplanet with evidence of emission variability from multiple telescopes spanning multiple years. We propose to observe three eclipses of the planet with MIRI/MRS in the Medium sub-band. These observations will allow us to confirm the existence of an atmosphere, probe the wavelength dependence of its emission variability, and constrain its carbon dioxide abundance through the 15 um CO2 absorption feature. As an old, ultra-hot (Teq=2000 K), and ultra-short-period planet, 55 Cnc e may seem a-priori like a particularly hostile place for any gaseous envelope. Understanding whether and/or how such an envelope exists on 55 Cnc e, the most observationally favorable super-Earth, has strong implications for the survivability of rocky planet atmospheres more generally.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We request three 4.8 h MRS time series observations with the "medium" sub-band, covering 3 eclipses of 55 Cnc e. Each visit starts roughly 2.2 h before the eclipse, cover the 1.6 h eclipse, and end 1.0 h after the eclipse. We request 9 groups/integration for MRSSHORT and 50 groups/integration for MRSLONG, which safely avoids saturation for detectors.