---
id: 7881
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Jennifer Andrews"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "5.0/0.0"
program_title: "Watching Dust Formation in Real Time in Two Very Nearby Core Collapse Supernovae"
type: "GO"
---
# 7881 - Watching Dust Formation in Real Time in Two Very Nearby Core Collapse Supernovae
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7881
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :------------------- | :----------------- | :------------- |
| SN-2023ixf (Obs 1)   | MIRI Imaging       | (2) SN-2023ixf |
| SN-2024ggi (Obs 1)   | MIRI Imaging       | (3) SN-2024ggi |

## ABSTRACT

The very nearby core collapse supernovae (CCSN) SN 2023ixf and SN 2024ggi (both at ~7 Mpc) will likely be the most well-studied SNe this decade. The combination of pre-explosion data combined with the comprehensive follow-up post explosion has given us an unprecedented chance to study both massive star and CCSN evolution in two completely different galaxies. In particular, these nearby SNe may hold key information in understanding the formation of dust in the Universe. Dust is abundant in the early universe, and CCSN are a likely source. However, existing observations of CCSNe in the near- and short mid-infrared yield dust masses ~2-3 orders of magnitude lower than expected. One possible solution is that this dust is hiding deep in the mid-infrared, at temperatures of ~100-200K, or that it is created over a longer time span than some models predict. JWST+MIRI is able to probe both warm (~300-500K) and cold (~100-200K) dust with unprecedented sensitivity. By observing SN 2023ixf and SN 2024ggi over the next three JWST cycles with MIRI we will create spectral energy distributions out to ~25 microns allowing us to quantify and characterize the amount of cold and warm dust both pre-existing and newly formed. This will help us understand dust formation in real time, explore links between dust formation and other SN properties, and address the issue of cosmic dust formation in the early universe.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This proposal will image the recent, nearby core collapse supernovae SN 2023ixf and SN 2024ggi with MIRI over the next three JWST Cycles to watch any dust formation occur in real time. Long baseline observations are necessary as well to help differentiate newly formed dust from pre-existing dust.

Each observation will consist of imaging in all the primary MIRI filters: F560W, F770W, F1000W, F1130W, F1280W, F1500W, F1800W, F2100W, and F2550W. The full suite of MIRI imaging is necessary to characterize both cold and warm dust components (down to ~100-200K) and to have sensitivity to PAH and SiO dust-related features. Standard 4-point dithers will be applied.