---
id: 7893
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging  NIRSpec/FS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Mingyang Zhuang"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "17.9/0.0"
program_title: "Host Galaxy Properties of the Most Massive Quasars at Cosmic Noon"
type: "GO"
---
# 7893 - Host Galaxy Properties of the Most Massive Quasars at Cosmic Noon
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7893
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :---- | :----------------- | :------------- |
| 1     | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) CT286      |
| 2     | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (1) CT286      |
| 3     | NIRCam Imaging     | (2) DES0228    |
| 4     | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (2) DES0228    |
| 5     | NIRCam Imaging     | (3) DES0033    |
| 6     | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (3) DES0033    |
| 7     | NIRCam Imaging     | (4) S5-0836+71 |
| 8     | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (4) S5-0836+71 |
| 9     | NIRCam Imaging     | (5) SBS1425+606 |
| 10    | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (5) SBS1425+606 |
| 11    | NIRCam Imaging     | (6) RM363      |
| 12    | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (6) RM363      |
| 13    | NIRCam Imaging     | (7) RM372      |
| 14    | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (7) RM372      |

---

## ABSTRACT

A key constraint on the co-evolution scenario of supermassive black holes and their host galaxies is the observed correlations between the black hole (BH) mass and host stellar properties at Cosmic Noon (z~2), where both quasar activity and global star formation reached their peak. Such constraints rely on reliable measurements of both BH masses and host stellar properties, and there is currently no consesus on whether or not such corrrelations exist at z~2. This program will observe a sample of seven of the most massive quasars at z~2-3 that have direct reverberation mapping-based BH masses, using NIRCam ~1-5 micron imaging and NIRSpec Fixed Slit spectroscopy. With these data, we will measure host stellar properties in these luminous quasars at Cosmic Noon. The proposed sample will significantly expand the dynamic range in BH mass (by a factor of ~4) beyond existing samples to facilitate the measurement of BH-host scaling relations. This program will provide a benchmark sample for comparative studies of massive galaxies and luminous quasars across cosmic time.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will perform NIRCam imaging and NIRSpec FS spectroscopy for seven z~2-3 quasars with direct black hole mass estimates based on reverberation mapping. The NIRCam imaging is primarily used to measure morphology, local environment, and stellar populations of the hosts upon imaging decomposition in multiple bands. The NIRSpec FS spectroscopy is primarily used to measure the stellar velocity dispersion.

Each target will have two observations, and each observation can be fit in a single visit. All targets can be considered compact sources (with sizes <1") in sparse extragalactic fields. All targets are bright, with J-band magnitude of 15-19 (Vega).

The first visit/observation is NIRCam imaging in two pairs of short+long-wave filters, which are optimized according to source redshift: F090W+F277W and F150W+F444W for three objects with z<~2, F115W+F277W and F200W+F444W for three objects with z~2.5, and F150W+F356W and F200W+F444W for the remaining object with z=3.2. NIRCam FULL subarrays with both Modules A and B are adopted for all objects to increase the FoV for better PSF modeling using nearby field stars. We adopt RAPID/BRIGHT1 readout pattern for five targets to reduce saturation in central pixels. ETC is run in each filter separately using the template target spectrum, individual redshift and observed JHKW1W2 photometry for each target to avoid pixel saturation and SNR estimation. For each target, we will adopt a 4-point STANDARD subpixel dither pattern and a total exposure time of ~10 minutes (both filter pairs combined) for five bright sources and ~35 minutes for two faint sources to reach a SNR of >~30 for host emission within 0.3" radius. This moderate science exposure time will provide sufficient depth for reliable host detection. This dither pattern is sufficient to reach Nyquist sampling of the PSF for all filters but F090W, whose PSF is still slightly undersampled. This compromise is acceptable since the F090W filter samples the rest-frame UV and is not primarily used for host morphological measurements and stellar mass estimation. Increasing the number of dither points will lead to extra overhead with minimal improvements for our primary science goals. We will use field stars in all NIRCam pointings for the targets to construct optimal PSF models for our quasar/host decomposition.

The second visit/observation is the NIRSpec FS spectroscopy. We will use the G140M/F100LP for one target with z=1.7 and G235M/F170LP for the remaining six targets. We will adopt WATA with the science target itself for target acquisition. We will use S200A1 slit with a two-point primary dither (nodding) plus two-point subpixel spatial dither pattern. To meet the SNR requirement for reliable stellar velocity dispersion measurement, we would need ~20 min total exposure for five bright sources and ~60 min for the remaining two faint sources. Saturation is not an issue for the proposed NIRSpec observations.