---
id: 7898
proposal_type: "calibration"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: ""
program_title: "CAL-FGS-401  FGS Geometric Distortion and Scale"
type: ""
---
# 7898 - CAL-FGS-401  FGS Geometric Distortion and Scale
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7898
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :---- | :----------------------- | :--------------------- |
| FGS1  | FGS External Calibration | (1) LMC-ASTROMETRIC    |
| FGS2  | FGS External Calibration | (1) LMC-ASTROMETRIC    |

---

## ABSTRACT

This proposal acquires data to calibrate the geometric distortion & pixel scale of both FGS Guide channels. The LMC astrometric field is imaged via FGS in calibration mode, obtaining full frame images at 5 different positions (standard 5-point dither) within the astrometric field for each of the two channels. The mid-point of the catalog will be placed at the center of the initial pointing of FGS channel being calibrated (the other channel will be guiding). This will ensure that (1) the same stars are used to calibrate FGS1 and FGS2, and (2) we will thus obtain an accurate measure of the relative sensitivity of Guiders 1 & 2. New for Cycle 4 we reduce the cadence of the observations to one epoch per year, down from 2 epochs/year, due to the observed stability of the calibration over time.
This calibration program is provisional and may change in response to system developments and final science program.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

FGS full frame images of the astrometric field in the LMC will be obtained with a 5-point dither pattern. For each guider channel, the mid-point of the LMC astrometric catalog will serve as the "target" while the "other" guider channel executes the guide function. These images will be mapped to the astrometric catalog to determine the polynomial cofficients that describe the instrument's geometric distortions. If significantly different from previous measurements the ground system and flight model will be updated to restore the calibration's accuracy. A secondary measurement, by comparing the instensities of the observed stars in Guider 1 and Guider 2, the relative sensitivities of the two channels can be monitored.
The imaging channel will operate in 'calibration mode' using the FGS External Calibration APT template. A 5-point primary dither pattern is used to acquire full frame images of the star field.
TIMING CONSTRAINTS
Previous Calibration Cycles executed these observations 2/yr, approximately every 6 months. Exerience has shown the calibration to be sufficiently stable to reduce this cadance to once per year. The observations in Guider 1 and Guider 2 should execute in a non-interputed sequence.