---
id: 7934
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Robert Fesen"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "8.4/0.0"
program_title: "A Deep, High Resolution NIRCam Mosaic of Cas A: Keeping Up with its Rapidly Evolving Structure"
type: "GO"
---
# 7934 - A Deep, High Resolution NIRCam Mosaic of Cas A: Keeping Up with its Rapidly Evolving Structure
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7934
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label          | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :------------- | :----------------- | :------------- |
| NIRCam mosaic  | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) Cas-A      |

---

## ABSTRACT

The Galactic supernova remnant Cassiopeia A (Cas A) is the youngest Galactic core-collapse SNR known and, at an estimated distance of 3.4 kpc provides us with the clearest look at the properties and explosion dynamics of a high mass supernova. Cas A's ejecta knots are typically sub-arcseconds in size and can show emission and morphological changes on timescales from a few months to a few years. No other remnant, with the exception of SN 1987A, shows such rapid optical changes across large portions of its structure. We propose a deep NIRCam image of Cas A remnant in Cycles 4 and 5 using a filter especially sensitive to the remnant's bright emission lines to match existing WFC2 and ACS HST images but with a resolution 3-4 times better. Three other NIRCam filers will be used to match those taken in JWST's Cycle 1. These data will extend and complement the existing HST/JWST images and be an HST-JWST transition for the study and MHD modeling of Cas A and other high mass, core-collapse SNe.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This program will reproduce NIRCam mosaics obtained in Cycle 1 through program ID 1947 (PI: Milisavljevic). In addition to the three original filters F162M, F356W, and F444W, we also include the F070W that will broadly match the bandpass of existing HST/WFC F625W+F775W images. A repeat of the mosaics will be conducted in Cycle 5. These observations will be analyzed for clump sizes and compared to existing data to measure proper motion. We request that these new observations broadly match the orient of the original Cycle 1 observations to maximize overlap of the data sets.