---
id: 7935
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Fengwu Sun  Co-PIs: Xiaojing Lin"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "36.2/0.0"
program_title: "Efficient Measurement of the Emergence Rate of AGN in Legacy Deep Field"
type: "GO"
---
# 7935 - Efficient Measurement of the Emergence Rate of AGN in Legacy Deep Field
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7935
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label        | Observing Template            | Science Target          |
| :----------- | :---------------------------- | :---------------------- |
| PA320-ptg-1  | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (1) emerald_gdn_tgt_ptg_1 |
| PA320-ptg-2  | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (2) emerald_gdn_tgt_ptg_2 |
| PA320-ptg-3  | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (3) emerald_gdn_tgt_ptg_3 |
| PA320-ptg-4  | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (4) emerald_gdn_tgt_ptg_4 |
| PA320-ptg-5  | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (5) emerald_gdn_tgt_ptg_5 |
| PA320-ptg-6  | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (6) emerald_gdn_tgt_ptg_6 |

---

## ABSTRACT

Despite a large number of AGN found by JWST at z>4, we still do not have a clear answer on the fraction of galaxies hosting active nuclei at this epoch. To enhance the completeness and accuracy in AGN selection, we propose a highly efficient NIRSpec MSA survey in the GOODS-N field. By targeting star-formation-rate (SFR)-selected galaxies with secure redshifts from previous NIRCam WFSS surveys at 3-5 um, we will obtain highly multiplexed NIRSpec G395M/F290LP spectroscopy of 842 galaxies with just 6 MSA configurations, all of which are at z=4-9. We will determine the broad-line AGN fraction among galaxies with diverse SFR (1-50 Msun/yr) and large-scale environment (over/underdensity) with 1% accuracy. We will also characterize other key diagnostics of AGN including BPT diagram, high-ionization lines and mid-infrared spectral energy distribution through joint analyses with the rich archival dataset in this legacy deep field.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will conduct NIRSpec MOS observations using the G395M/F290LP grating/filter, to obtain R~1000 spectroscopy of N=842 galaxies at z=4-9 in the GOODS-N fields at 2.8-5.1 um.

All of our targets have been pre-imaged by NIRCam and spectroscopically confirmed with Cycle-1/2 NIRCam wide-field slitless spectroscopy program FRESCO (GO-1895) and CONGRESS (GO-3577) through the detection of either Halpha or [OIII] 5007 lines, and the redshift uncertainty is typically dz = 0.001. Because the redshifts are known precisely for all targets, the expected positions of weak emission lines on NIRSpec detectors are known from the MSA configurations. Therefore, we allow a high spectral overlapping (~3x per pixel on average) to maximize the efficiency of NIRSpec MSA by observing ~140 emission-line galaxies per configurations.

We will use the NRSIRS2 readout mode for better readout noise performance. With 3-shutter dithering, we will obtain 5 exposures x 16 groups of readout. The on-source exposure time per MSA pointing is 4.9 hours. We estimate typical 5-sigma sensitivity limits of 4x10^{-19} and 8x10^{-19} erg/s/cm^2 for narrow (unresolved) and broad (FWHM=1000km/s) emission lines, respectively.

We have designed six MSA configurations in the targeted fields (GOODS-N). The positional angles (PAs) of our NIRSpec MSA pointings have been fixed to maximize the coverage of the two GOODS fields and therefore the total number of z=4-9 galaxies with shutter assignment. To achieve this, we request aperture PA = 320 deg. We have confirmed that all observations are schedulable within 11-day window. The sky background condition will be optimized and there will be no usage of micrometeorite avoidance zone.