---
id: 7944
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Nicholas Ballering"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "13.2/0.0"
program_title: "A MIRI/MRS Deep Dive into Dust Loss and Disk Chemistry for Three Archetypical Proplyds"
type: "GO"
---
# 7944 - A MIRI/MRS Deep Dive into Dust Loss and Disk Chemistry for Three Archetypical Proplyds
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7944
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label              | Observing Template                  | Science Target |
| :----------------- | :---------------------------------- | :------------- |
| 177-341 MIRI/MRS   | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) 177-341    |
| 142-301 MIRI/MRS   | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) 142-301    |
| 072-135 MIRI/MRS   | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) 072-135    |

## ABSTRACT

Most stars and planets form in clusters in the presence of massive stars. This UV-rich environment can drive a substantial loss of gas from protoplanetary disks via a photoevaporative outflow. While Hubble, ALMA, and JWST images have glimpsed the photoevaporating "proplyds" in Orion, there is still much we do not understand about the effect of strong external UV fields on planet formation. How much dust, and what grain sizes, is entrained in the outflowing gas? How does a disk's warm molecular chemistry respond to a strong external UV field? To answer these questions, we propose deep MIRI/MRS observations of three archetypical proplyds in Orion, enabling a spatial/spectral analysis of the central disk and outflowing material. We will search for mid-IR silicate emission features in the proplyd outflows to measure dust abundance and grain sizes entrained in the photoevaporating gas. The spectra of the central disks will reveal their warm molecular gas inventory, which we will compare with systems in low-mass star-forming regions. We will also search for telltale signs of UV-driven chemistry, e.g., OH and CH3+. Approved cycle 3 NIRSpec IFU measurements of these three systems will yield the temperature and density of the warm outflowing gas, setting the stage to maximize the scientific return from these MIRI observations. Two of the three systems also have existing complementary high-resolution multi-band ALMA data. We propose for ALMA observations of the third systems to reveal its large dust population, cold molecular gas, and the free-free emission from the surrounding ionization front.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The goal is to acquire deep MIRI/MRS observations of three proplyds in the Orion Nebula Cluster. This will enable a search for spatially extended silicate emission features from the proplyd outflow. It will also reveal molecular emission lines from the central disk. We request all three grating modes. We use a 4-point dither pattern optimized for extended sources. We do not request target acquisition. The observations are centered on the proplyd head and central disk; measuring the full extent of the tail is not critical. We optimize the exposures to obtain SNR>250 from 5-18 um on the central disks while avoiding saturation.