---
id: 7957
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Allison Kirkpatrick"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "38.3/0.0"
program_title: "MEGA Spectra: Black Hole Growth and ISM Conditions at Cosmic Noon"
type: "GO"
---
# 7957 - MEGA Spectra: Black Hole Growth and ISM Conditions at Cosmic Noon
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7957
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label   | Observing Template                 | Science Target      |
| :------ | :--------------------------------- | :------------------ |
| FOUR_80 | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (1) nirspec_catalog |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose NIRSpec MSA observations of the EGS field in 4 pointings with the G140M, G235M, and G395M gratings covering a wavelength range of 0.9 - 5.0 microns. We will observe for 7965s in all gratings, designed specifically to find low luminosity AGN and probe the ISM of galaxies with SFRs < 5 Msun/yr at z=1-2. All targets (130 primary + potentially 150 filler sources) have been selected from the MEGA survey, which covers the EGS field with MIRI imaging from 7.7 - 21.0 microns. The near-IR spectroscopy + mid-IR photometry will be combined to create a complete census of the ISM, star formation, and black hole growth within our targets. Our primary sample is selected from z=0.5-5.0 to: 1) confirm low luminosity or obscured AGN candidates (mid-IR selected) through high ionization lines such as [OIII]; 2) measure black hole masses (via H-beta) in unobscured AGN, down to M(BH) = 10^7 M(sun); 3) measure metal content via lines such as [OII], [SII], [NII] and correlate with strength of PAH features; 4) use Halpha, Paschen-alpha to calibrate PAH SFR indicators in main sequence galaxies. Our filler sample is selected to: 1) confirm the AGN / obscured nature of little red dots; 2) distinguish between conflicting photometric redshift estimates. NIRSpec follow-up of MIRI-selected sources offers a unique window into the obscured assembly of mass within galaxies.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose for 4 NIRSpec MOS pointings in the EGS field, covering the area that was included in the MEGA survey. We used the MSA planning tool to optimize the location of each pointing. We found that adding additional pointings does not significantly increase our number of primary targets, due to the significant size difference between the MIRI FOV and the NIRSpec FOV and the layout of the MEGA pointings.

In each pointing, we observing in the G140M/F100LP, G235M/F170LP, G395M/F290LP. All three gratings are necessary to enable both cosmic noon science (obtaining Hbeta, 0.468um, and Paschen-alpha, 1.875um) and high redshift observations (measuring Hbeta, [OIII], [NII], Halpha at z~5). We use the recommended NRSIRS2 readout pattern and plan for 18 groups per integration, with 1 integrations per exposure, following the recommendation that groups are increased rather than integrations. The NRSIRS2 pattern is required due to the high data volume per visit. The ETC indicates that even our brightest targets will not saturate. As our target list is comprised of point sources and extended galaxies, we use a nod and dither strategy. We follow the recommended nod strategy of 3 positions in the slitlet. We ask for two dithers, with a dispersion of 5 shutters and cross-dispersion of 2 shutters. The dithers will also help estimate the amount of leakage between slits. 18 groups x 1 integration x 3 nods x 2 dithers gives a total exposure time of 7965.53 seconds per grating per pointing. For three gratings and four pointings, this gives a total exposure time of 26 hours.

We use the recommended 3 slitlet configuration. We allow for multiple targets per row, with a minimum separation of 80 slits. We found that this configuration would maximize the possible number of targets while minimizing leakage.

Target acquisition will utilize existing NIRCam images from the CEERS survey, which have the necessary pointing accuracy.