---
id: 7965
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Els Peeters"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "13.6/0.0"
program_title: "Probing the chemical evolution of the carriers of the Aromatic Infrared Band emission."
type: "GO"
---
# 7965 - Probing the chemical evolution of the carriers of the Aromatic Infrared Band emission.
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7965
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label           | Observing Template                  | Science Target              |
| :-------------- | :---------------------------------- | :-------------------------- |
| NIRSpec IFU     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy            | (1) NGC-6644                |
| NIRSpec IFU sky | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy            | (2) NGC-6644-BACKGROUND     |
| MIRI MRS        | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) NGC-6644                |
| MIRI MRS sky    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) NGC-6644-BACKGROUND     |

---

## ABSTRACT

The IR spectra of regions associated with gas and dust often exhibit strong emission features known as the Aromatic Infrared Bands (AIBs). In circumstellar environments of both young stellar objects and old stars, the AIBs display clear spectral variations that reflect changes in their chemical make up, more specifically in the aromaticity of the AIB carriers. The aromaticity of the AIB carriers has a profound influence on key physical processes such as the photo-electric effect and ionization. This in turn sets the thermal and ionization balance in planet-forming disks around young stellar objects (among others) which may influence the formation of planetesimals and planets.

Here, we propose 0.97-28 micron NIRSpec IFU and MIRI-MRS spatially resolved observations of the planetary nebula NGC 6644 to characterize the spatial behaviour of the AIB emission in its circumstellar toroid. The goal of the program is to study the processes that regulate the aliphatic-to-aromatic character of the AIB carriers as well as the relationship between the degree of aromaticity and the spectral characteristics of the AIB emission. We aim to establish an evolutionary link between the highly aromatic AIBs typically seen in the ISM (class A) and the more aliphatic AIBs seen in circumstellar environments (class B), and determine the conditions that promote this evolution.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This program includes observations with 1) NIRSpec IFU using the G140H/F100LP, F235H/F170LP, G395H/F290LP grating/filter combinations and a 4-point dither pattern and 2) MIRI MRS in all channels using a 4-point dither. The observations have a dedicated NIRSpec leakcal observation and dedicated sky observations. We perform MIRI/MRS simultaneous imaging.

The NIRSpec and MRS observations are linked as an uninterruptible sequence, but otherwise the observation are unconstrained.