---
id: 7973
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Noah Rogers"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "57.6/0.0"
program_title: "Mid-Infrared Abundances of Gaseous Environments (MIRAGE): A MIR Approach to the Abundance Discrepancy"
type: "GO"
---
# 7973 - Mid-Infrared Abundances of Gaseous Environments (MIRAGE): A MIR Approach to the Abundance Discrepancy
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7973
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                  | Observing Template                 | Science Target           |
| :--------------------- | :--------------------------------- | :----------------------- |
| UM461                  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) UM461                |
| UM461-BKG              | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) UM461-BKG            |
| KUG1138+327            | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) KUG1138+327          |
| KUG1138+327-BKG        | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) KUG1138+327-BKG      |
| HS1028+3843            | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (5) HS1028+3843          |
| HS1028+3843-BKG        | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (6) HS1028+3843-BKG      |
| HS0134+3415            | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (9) HS0134+3415          |
| HS0134+3415-BKG        | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (10) HS0134+3415-BKG     |
| HS0811+4913            | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (11) HS0811+4913         |
| HS0811+4913-BKG        | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (12) HS0811+4913-BKG     |
| J1136+4709             | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (13) J1136+4709          |
| J1136+4709-BKG         | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (14) J1136+4709-BKG      |
| SBS1415+437            | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (15) SBS1415+437         |
| SBS1415+437-BKG        | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (16) SBS1415+437-BKG     |
| J1331+4151             | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (17) J1331+4151          |
| J1331+4151-BKG         | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (18) J1331+4151-BKG      |
| HS0837+4717            | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (19) HS0837+4717         |
| HS0837+4717-BKG        | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (20) HS0837+4717-BKG     |
| LEDA279                | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (21) LEDA2790884         |
| LEDA279-BKG            | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (22) LEDA2790884-BKG     |
| SBS1420+544            | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (23) SBS1420+544         |
| SBS1420+544-BKG        | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (24) SBS1420+544-BKG     |
| J2310-0211             | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (25) J2310-0211          |
| J2310-0211-BKG         | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (26) J2310-0211-BKG      |
| HS0122+0743            | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (27) HS0122+0743         |
| HS0122+0743-BKG        | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (28) HS0122+0743-BKG     |

---

## ABSTRACT

The metallicity of the Interstellar Medium (ISM) directly traces star-formation and is a strong indicator of galaxy evolution. However, the methods used to measure the ISM metallicity are a matter of intense debate. Namely, abundances measured from optical temperature (Te) sensitive collisionally-excited lines (CELs) are ~2 times lower than abundances derived using metal recombination lines of the same ion. This Abundance Discrepancy (AD) calls into question the true abundance scale of the ISM, complicating our interpretation of chemical enrichment in local and high-z star-forming galaxies.

Te inhomogeneities in the ISM have been argued to be a main contributor to the AD, which can be directly assessed with the Te-insensitive MIR fine-structure lines of Ne, S, and Ar. These emission lines enable an alternative abundance measurement and, when compared to metallicities derived from optical CELs, directly probe the magnitude of Te variations. Prior MIR observations could not explore this abundance method owing to a combination of poor sensitivity and inability to aperture match to ground-based data. JWST/MIRI, with its IFU capabilities and superior sensitivity, allows for the only direct comparison of MIR and optical ionic abundances. We propose the Mid-Infrared Abundances of Gaseous Environments (MIRAGE) survey to obtain the most accurate MIR gas-phase abundances to date. Combined with high-quality optical/NIR spectroscopy, MIRAGE will definitively address inhomogeneities in the ISM (both temperature and density fluctuations) as a potential source of the AD and resolve whether such fluctuations should be accounted for when deriving chemical abundances from optical CELs.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

**OBSERVING DESCRIPTION**
We propose MIRAGE, the first large-scale MIR abundance survey in the era of JWST. Our observations target 14 local, low-metallicity dwarf galaxies and H II regions with existing high-quality optical/NIR spectra to study the chemical abundance trends measured from the MIR fine-structure lines. MIRI/MRS is the only instrument/observing mode capable of simultaneously measuring the required emission lines (including the faint H I recombination lines) while matching the apertures used in ground-based observations of the same regions.

MIRI/MRS Science: We require full MIR spectroscopic coverage to measure the [Ne III]15.6um, [S III]18.7um, and [Ar III]9.0um fine-structure lines and the H I recombination lines PfA and HuA. The exposure times were determined using the JWST ETC v4.0, which has been updated to account for the temporal behavior of the reduced count rates in MIRI/MRS. This effect is most significant for Channel 4, which contains the [S III] fine-structure line.

To infer the MIR emission line fluxes in each target, we use the measured optical HB, [Ne III] 3868, [S III] 9532, and [Ar III] 7135 emission line fluxes as well as the gas-phase physical conditions (Te and ne) from the existing optical spectrum. Using the optical CEL and MIR fine-structure line emissivities, we infer the MIR fine-structure line fluxes at the given Te+ne of the nebula. We then assume that the source is characterized by a symmetric 2D Gaussian profile with standard deviation determined by the size of the ionized region from the ground-based optical data. To measure robust MIR ionic abundances, we require S/N > 25 at HuA line center when using an aperture of equal size to the ground-based optical extraction aperture. This sets the groups/integration for Band A, which contains the HuA recombination line (the faintest line required for the MIRAGE science goals); we then verify that the same number of groups in Bands A, B, and C produce high S/N (>50) detections in each of the fine-structure lines of interest when using the same extraction area. We also check that the requested groups/integration is < 20% of the groups to reach saturation for a point source with the same emission line fluxes, ensuring that the cores of the bright lines will not saturate.

We use FASTR1, the default readout mode, when the groups/integration is <= 150. However, due to the sequential nature of our science+background observations (see below), longer exposures require the use of the SLOWR1 readout mode to avoid data excess warnings. We use a 4pt dither optimized for extended sources to mitigate the impacts of cosmic rays and to provide improved spatial sampling of each target. Target Acquisition imaging is not required for MIRAGE because pointing precision is not needed to < 0.14". All targets are contained within Channel 2, so no PA limits are requested.

MIRI/MRS Background: MIRAGE targets local star-forming regions that are extended and require a dedicated observation to remove the MIR thermal background. These background observations are taken in a non-interruptible sequence before the science observations, as recommended by STScI. For each science target, we select a background pointing that is separated from the science observations by at least 1 arcminute and that is free from emission in SDSS, WISE, 2MASS, and GALEX imaging. Following the recommendations of STScI, the MIRI detector readout matches the configuration used for the science observation, the exposure time is selected to match the science observations in each Band, and a 2pt, background-optimized dither pattern is employed.