---
id: 7982
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRISS/SOSS  NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Alastair Claringbold  Co-PIs: James Owen"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "74.1/0.0"
program_title: "Warm Jupiters: the next step in uncovering giant planet formation and migration"
type: "GO"
---
# 7982 - Warm Jupiters: the next step in uncovering giant planet formation and migration
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7982
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label             | Observing Template                       | Science Target |
| :---------------- | :--------------------------------------- | :------------- |
| NGTS-11b SOSS     | NIRISS Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy | (1) NGTS-11    |
| NGTS-11b G395M    | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series        | (1) NGTS-11    |
| TOI-216c SOSS     | NIRISS Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy | (2) TOI-216    |
| TOI-216c G395M    | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series        | (2) TOI-216    |
| TOI-1670c G235M   | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series        | (3) TOI-1670   |
| TOI-1670c G395M   | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series        | (3) TOI-1670   |

## ABSTRACT

Understanding planetary formation and migration via their atmospheric composition is a key goal of exoplanetary characterization. However, for any individual planets, the knowledge about the protoplanetary environment is too uncertain to relate formation to current composition. Only by using samples of planets with similar dynamical properties that imply shared formation pathways, and comparing composition between these samples, can we understand how formation impacts composition. We identify a third key population with a distinct formation pathway, warm Jupiters with inner companions. Standard disc migration is disfavoured for these planets, as it would destroy the inner planetary system, implying these warm Jupiters underwent only weak migration. We would therefore expect their atmospheric composition to reflect the local inner disc. We can compare this to the populations of the BOWIE-ALIGN programme, which is testing for differences in composition between misaligned hot Jupiters believed to form via high-eccentricity migration, and aligned hot Jupiters believed to form via disc migration.

We will observe the transmission spectra of three warm Jupiters, NGTS-11b, TOI-216c, and TOI-1670c, combining them with planned observations of TOI-1130c and TOI-2525c. This will allow us to measure the C/O ratio and metallicity for these targets, which we can combine and compare to the BOWIE-ALIGN populations. We simulate our observational test, and perform 1000 random draws to demonstrate we can robustly detect a difference in composition in the face of both theoretical and observational uncertainties with 5 targets, meaning even a null result would be informative.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will obtain the near infrared transmission spectrum of three warm Jupiters, observing two transits for each target.

For each target we will observe the transit with NIRSpec in Bright Object Time Series (BOTS) mode to obtain a transmission spectrum from 2.8-5.1 microns, with a single exposure with the G395M grating. For NGTS-11b we use 37 groups/integration with 754 integrations for a total of 7.18 hours of observing time (including a 3.59 transit). For TOI-216c we use 34 groups/integration with 1257 integrations for a total of 11.03 hours of observing time (including a 5.52 hour transit). For TOI-1670c we use 8 groups/integration with 4778 integration for a total of 10.80 hours of observation (including a 5.40 hour transit). Each exposure uses SUB2048 and NRSRAPID readout.

We also observe a transit with NIRISS SOSS for NGTS-11b and TOI-216c to obtain shorter wavelength coverage, using 15 groups/integration and 296 integrations, and 14 groups/integration and 482 integrations respectively, for the same durations as their NIRSpec observations, both using SUBSTRIP256 and NISRAPID readout. For TOI-1670c, which is not observable with NIRISS due to contamination, we instead use a BOTS observation with the G235M filter, SUB2048, and NRSRAPID readout, using 4 groups/integration with 8583 integrations.

For target acquisition (TA) we use the science target for our observations of NGTS-11b and TOI-216c, using WATA mode with F110W and SUB32 for NIRSpec, and SOSSFAINT with 7 groups/integration for NIRISS. This partially saturates the central pixel (after 1 group), but there is sufficient SNR (>20) on the surrounding pixels to allow for accurate target acquisition (this exact setup, with a saturated central pixel, was done successfully for target acquisition of WASP-39 by ERS program #1366). For the observation of TOI-1670c, NIRSpec TA would have more than one saturated pixel, so we instead acquire using a nearby star 8" away, using F140X to increase the SNR.

The total charged time is 74.1 hours.