---
id: 7985
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging  NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Adam Leroy"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "18.7/1.0"
program_title: "Resolving the thin disk of a nearby Milky Way analog"
type: "GO"
---
# 7985 - Resolving the thin disk of a nearby Milky Way analog
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7985
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                      | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :------------------------- | :----------------- | :------------- |
| MIRI mosaic of NGC 4565    | MIRI Imaging       | (1) NGC-4565   |
| NIRCam mosaic of NGC 4565  | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) NGC-4565   |

## ABSTRACT

We propose panoramic MIRI and NIRCam mapping of the prototype nearby edge-on galaxy, NGC 4565 (inclination = 87.5 degrees). With < 20h total time, we will resolve the vertical structure of PAH emission, dust continuum, and multiple star formation tracers over the whole disk. Measurements of vertical structure are critical to test models of self-regulation in galaxies. Such vertical self-regulation is predicted by simulations and widely used to interpret observations of all types of galaxies but not yet strongly tested by direct, edge-on observations of other galaxies. JWST imaging will change that, achieving < 20 pc resolution and detecting emission all the way out to galactocentric radius > 30 kpc, far into the outer, HI-dominated regime. These observations are also ideal to identify and characterize giant interstellar filaments, which appear as extended in-plane structures in Milky Way dust observations. Thus, this program will test the generality of an emerging new paradigm in ISM structure.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We design MIRI and NIRCam mosaics that cover the disk out to where Spitzer imaging indicates the 8 micron imaging to drop below 0.5 MJy/sr. We obtain the NIRCam observations in parallel with the required MIRI background observations. The background regions appear free of mid-IR emission in previous imaging, and they cover a wide area to easily suppress any unexpected artifacts. The long, thin disk requires that we moderately constrain the position angle and then we use row offsets to align the mosaic with the disk.
We adopt readout and dithering patterns that have worked successfully for previous mosaic imaging of nearby galaxies (GO 2107, GO 3707). We also match those integration times, consistent with the observed brightness and outer brightness contour for our sources.