---
id: 7988
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRISS/AMI"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Adam Kraus"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "13.2/0.0"
program_title: "Multiplexed Planet Discovery and Binary-Star Disk Demographics in the Young Cluster IC 348 with a Pilot for Full-Frame NIRISS AMI"
type: "GO"
---
# 7988 - Multiplexed Planet Discovery and Binary-Star Disk Demographics in the Young Cluster IC 348 with a Pilot for Full-Frame NIRISS AMI
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7988
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label      | Observing Template                   | Science Target |
| :--------- | :----------------------------------- | :------------- |
| IC348-Fld1 | NIRISS Aperture Masking Interferometry | (1) IC348-Fld1 |

---

## ABSTRACT

Directly imaged planets offer our best window into outer-planet demographics, provide exquisite spectra of planetary atmospheres, and (at young ages) capture planet assembly and circumplanetary disks in action. Binary systems offer repeatable tests of planet-formation models, directly connecting initial conditions (sculpting of disks by stellar companions) to final outcomes (planet demographics in (identical) older binaries).

JWST is revolutionizing both, but it is limited by finite spatial resolution, most acutely for the youngest (but most distant) stellar populations where planets are brightest and planet assembly is ongoing. Ironically, those stars also still saturate. Fortunately, NIRISS AMI (Aperture Mask Interferometry) solves both problems, and the new full-frame mode finally allows multiplexing across the full 2.2 arcmin NIRISS FOV.

We propose an extremely efficient multiplexed pilot survey with NIRISS Full-Frame AMI for the young cluster IC 348, simultaneously observing 25 cluster stars in 4 filters across the NIRISS FOV with just one pointing and costing just 13.2h. We will search for Jovian planets (down to 2 MJup) on solar-system scales (20 AU), testing if dense cluster environments produce as many giant planets as sparse moving groups. We will distinguish circum-primary/secondary disks within ~10 binaries via resolved colors, assessing where and how quickly planets form in binary systems. Finally, we will optimize strategies needed for future large surveys of planets/disks around hundreds of young stars using multiplexed AMI. Our pilot survey thus achieves cutting-edge stand-alone science, while also unlocking revolutionary future opportunities.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will obtain NIRISS AMI observations in full-frame mode for one pointing centered just off the middle of the young cluster IC 348. We will expose for a total of 8589 seconds per filter in F227W, F380M, F430M, and F480M, aiming to test the detection limits achievable in each filter and thus splitting the time evenly. We will use 1 group per integration, 20 integrations per exposure, 4 primary dithers, and 5 sub-pixel dithers. We do not use additional groups because the brightest stars may become nonlinear or even saturate with 2 groups.

We do not request separate calibrator observations because we aim to test the use of other stars within the same frame to calibrate a given source. This strategy takes advantage of simultaneity, calibrator diversity (location, brightness, color), and larger total number of photons (added over many other sources) to match or exceed the performance of a single mode-matched calibrator at the same detector location as a science target, but observed at a different time. The use of both primary and sub-pixel dithering is also intended to further increase calibrator diversity in terms of sub-pixel centering and location with respect to detector cosmetics. An assessment of the validity of this strategy is a major deliverable for our program, given that it is nearly a requirement to harness the advantages of full-frame AMI.