---
id: 7993
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Jane Huang"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "24.4/0.0"
program_title: "Do protoplanetary disk substructures regulate water enrichment and pebble drift across different environments?"
type: "GO"
---
# 7993 - Do protoplanetary disk substructures regulate water enrichment and pebble drift across different environments?
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7993
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                     | Observing Template                | Science Target      |
| :------------------------ | :-------------------------------- | :------------------ |
| SO1036 observations       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) SO1036          |
| SO1153 observations       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) SO1153          |
| SO897 observations        | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) SO897           |
| SO844 observations        | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) SO844           |
| SO1152 observations       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (5) SO1152          |
| SO1274 observations       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (6) SO1274          |
| SO662 observations        | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (7) SO662           |
| SO984 observations        | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (8) SO984           |
| Athalia Observations      | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (10) 515-Athalia    |

---

## ABSTRACT

The inward radial transport of icy pebbles in protoplanetary disks influences the masses, compositions, and habitability of forming planets. Observations of disks in nearby star-forming regions have shown that the cool water vapor content in the inner disk and inferred pebble flux are anticorrelated with disk size, a trend that has been ascribed to larger disks having prominent substructures that trap dust and and reduce the icy pebble flux to the inner disk. Planet-disk interactions are the leading explanation for disk substructures, suggesting that the formation of wide-separation giant planets regulates whether the inner disk is water-rich or poor and thus the properties of planets that form there. However, the relationship between the inner disk water reservoir and outer disk structure has thus far only been studied in star-forming regions with mild UV fields. Most stars emerge in high UV environments, which can drive mass loss in the outer regions of disks through external photoevaporation and thus reduce pebble drift to the inner disk. To investigate whether the observed link between the inner disk water content and outer disk structure generalizes to more typical star-forming environments, we propose to obtain MIRI MRS spectra of disks in the irradiated Sigma Orionis cluster that have been imaged at high resolution with ALMA. These observations will shed light on the universality of processes that control the composition and architecture of planetary systems.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This program will obtain MIRI MRS spectra of eight protoplanetary disks in the Sigma Ori cluster that have previously been imaged with ALMA at high resolution. All three grating settings will be used to provide wavelength coverage from 5 to 28 microns in order to target water emission lines across a range of upper state energy levels, along with other disk chemistry tracers such as CO2, OH, HCN, and C2H2. The sources are expected to be unresolved, so the 4-point dither for point sources will be used for all observations. Exposure times are chosen to achieve an SNR of at least 100 at 25 microns in order to have adequate sensitivity to water lines at lower energy levels, which probe the cooler water thought to be associated with pebble drift. Target acquisition will be used for all sources in order to facilitate fringe removal. Using the same setup, we will also obtain a spectrum of asteroid 515 Athalia with MIRI MRS in order to measure the relative spectral response function, which is necessary to optimize fringe removal in the spectra of the disk targets. We aim for an SNR of 300 at 25 microns, i.e., 3x higher than that of the science targets. By default, simultaneous imaging is included for all observations.