---
id: 7996
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/TSO"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Benjamin Proudfoot"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "6.0/0.0"
program_title: "ToO Observations of Stellar Occultations by TNO Ring Systems"
type: "GO, Carry-Over ToO, Non-Disruptive ToO"
---
# 7996 - ToO Observations of Stellar Occultations by TNO Ring Systems
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=7996
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                      | Observing Template    | Science Target            |
| :------------------------- | :-------------------- | :------------------------ |
| Haumea Occultation Example | NIRCam Time Series    | (1) GenericOccultedStar   |
| Quaoar Occultation         | NIRCam Time Series    | (2) OccultedStar Quaoar   |

---

## ABSTRACT

In recent years, ring systems have been discovered around trans-Neptunian objects (TNOs) and dwarf planets Haumea and Quaoar. These ring systems were discovered during stellar occultations, when the target passes in front of a distant background star. Rings around small bodies are mysterious and subject to intense study and debate in the small body community. Currently, no consensus has been reached regarding the formation, evolution, and stability of these rings system. To enable further study of these enigmatic ring systems, we propose a 6 hour target-of-opportunity (ToO) program to observe stellar occultations by Quaoar and Haumea. We request two activations, one each for Haumea and Quaoar, totalling 6 charged hours. We estimate the probability of activation is 22% and 78% for Haumea and Quaoar, respectively. Given the low activation probability (esp. for Haumea), we request carry-over status, allwoing lifetime activation probabilities of 40% and 95% for Haumea and Quaoar. Our observations will allow us to (1) complete a census of the ring systems, (2) search for spatial and temporal variability within each ring system, and (3) examine the material properties of the rings using NIRCam's multi-channel observing capabilities. JWST's aperture, ultra-fast readout, and multi-channel observing make JWST the premier facility to observe stellar occultations of dwarf planet rings. Understanding dwarf planet rings opens up various avenues of research with broad interest across the astronomy and planetary science communities, as well as the public at large.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The requested observations are target of opportunity (ToO) observations of stellar occultations by Quaoar and Haumea. Stellar occultations can be predicted ~6 weeks out from candidate events, requiring the use of ToO observations. Each activation will be observations of an occultation using NIRCam time series imaging. Although exact instrument set up depends on the event details, observations will be high cadence, using NIRCam's smallest subarray (SUB64P) in RAPID readout mode. We aim for SNR ~ 50 on the occulted star in the SWC. We aim to choose the shortest wavelength filter possible while still achieving high imaging cadence.

Observations should last around 40 minutes total, allowing us to observe the drops in flux caused by the rings occulting the star. Observations should start ~20 minutes before the predicted event midtime. The event midtime should be accurate to within ~20 seconds.