---
id: 8004
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Natasha Batalha"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "49.4/0.0"
program_title: "Cliff Hangers: Testing for Atmosphere-Mantle Interactions in Radius Cliff Planets"
type: "GO"
---
# 8004 - Cliff Hangers: Testing for Atmosphere-Mantle Interactions in Radius Cliff Planets
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=8004
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label      | Observing Template              | Science Target  |
| :--------- | :------------------------------ | :-------------- |
| TOI-431 d  | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) TOI-431d    |
| TOI-431 d  | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) TOI-431d    |
| HD 12572 b | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (2) HD-12572b   |
| HD 12572 b | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (2) HD-12572b   |

---

## ABSTRACT

Remarkable progress has been made in recent years to understand the demographics of exoplanets from transit and Doppler survey data. The sharp drop in exoplanet occurrence between 2.5 Rearth and 4 Rearth, known as the Radius Cliff, is arguably the most dramatic feature in the occurrence distribution of small planets, yet, planets along the cliff remain unexplored by JWST. These "radius cliff" planets are hypothesized to have distinct elemental ratios, when compared to their larger radius neighbors, because of large-scale magma-atmosphere interactions that could modify the Carbon and Oxygen abundances, ultimately lowering the atmospheric C/O ratio. Our program will test this hypothesis by obtaining NIRSpec G395H transmission specroscopy of two radius cliff planets and answer the question: do the atmospheres of radius cliff planets trace the chemical changes predicted by theory?

Focusing on the radius cliff regime will have a far reaching out-of-field impact on theoretical models that are tuned to reproduce the position and steepness of the radius cliff. Our program will leverage JWST's unique capabilities to detect the major carbon and oxygen-bearing species in transmission for this high-priority temperature-radius regime. Combined with JWST observations of sub-Neptunes at the top of the cliff and Neptune-size planets at the bottom of the cliff, our sample will provide meaningful constraints on theoretical models of the physical processes that sculpt the frequency distributions of small planets.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will observe 2 planets around 2 stars. We will observe each planet with the same observational mode and set-up for consistency. We will observe two visits of each planet transit event. Therefore, in total we will observe 4 individual transit events to achieve the needed precision for the outlined science goals.

We use NIRSpec in BOTS (Bright Object Time Series) mode, which requires the S1600A1 aperture with a fixed 1.6”x1.6” field of view (FoV). We will use the G395H/F290LP combination (2.87-5.27 microns) and SUB2048 subarray for all of our observations. This will ensure a uniform treatment of the data. This program is schedulable throughout cycle 4, and there are multiple opportunities throughout the year where our target stars are visible to JWST, each with multiple transit opportunities. Each observation must be scheduled to cover the transit of the planet. We have set the phase constraints to allow for a range of 60 minutes for the JWST observation start window for ease of scheduling. For each of our observations we will obtain a full observation of 2*(0.75 Hr + Max(1 Hr + T14/2, T14) (the "dwell equation" recommended by ExoCTK).

We anticipate needing to discard a maximum of 0.75 hours of data at the start of each observation due to detector settling effects which result in a ramp-like increase in the flux measured which would be unusable in our analysis. Our targets have transit times of 4.913 hrs (HD 12572 b) and 3.3 hrs (TOI-431 d). We calculated the time needed for each of our observations based on our science goal of matching the precision of GJ 3470 b retrieved C/O precision for a range of atmospheric metallicity and cloud obscuration levels. In total, the time needed includes data prior to, during, and following the transit event to obtain an adequate baseline of the stellar flux.

We will measure 4 transits over 2 targets with a science time of 31.8, and a total charged time of 49 hours including the observatory resets, overheads, slewing, and target acquisition. Our two targets are bright, therefore we cannot use them for target acquisition. For TOI-431 d, we will conduct target acquisition (TA) on an alternative target to avoid saturation. For the TA we will utilize the Wide Aperture Target Acquisition (WATA) mode on a target that is within the visit splitting distance of our target stas. We selected a source with valid 2MASS J magnitudes and Gaia DR2 proper motions to ensure they are suitable for accurate TA. We used VizieR and Aladin to validate the source, and the online JWST ETC to determine the set-up required. For TOI-431 d's TA star we will use the SUB32 subarray with the CLEAR filter. For HD 12572 b so we will rely on facility pointing. We will double check both of these, particularly the star for which we have no TA star, with scheduling prior to conducting the observations to ensure success of the program.