---
id: 8007
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Alexander Tielens  Co-PIs: Jan Cami and Els Peeters"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "13.9/0.0"
program_title: "Characterizing C60 cations in the cavity of NGC 7023"
type: "GO"
---
# 8007 - Characterizing C60 cations in the cavity of NGC 7023
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=8007
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label             | Observing Template               | Science Target       |
| :---------------- | :------------------------------- | :------------------- |
| MIRI-MRS 25       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) NGC7023-25       |
| MIRI-MRS-25-BKG   | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) NGC-7023-Bkg-25  |
| MIRI-MRS 15       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) NGC7023-15       |
| MIRI-MRS-15-BKG   | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (6) NGC-7023-Bkg-15  |
| MIRI-MRS 5        | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) NGC7023-5        |
| MIRI-MRS-5-BKG    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (5) NGC-7023-Bkg-5   |

## ABSTRACT

Buckminsterfullerene (C60) is a large carbonaceous molecule consisting of 60 C atoms, that is widespread and abundant in the universe. C60 belongs to a family of large aromatic molecules comprised of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) and fullerenes. These aromatic species play an important role in the heating and the charge balance of the interstellar medium (ISM). C60 is the only large aromatic molecule to be firmly identified in space and is thus a reference point for the studies on the behaviour of other aromatic species in space. Because of its low ionization potential and harsh conditions in the ISM, we also expect the presence of C60 cations, C60+ and C60++, in the ISM that have eluded detection till date. We propose to obtain MIRI-MRS observations of 3 positions in the cavity of the reflection nebula NGC 7023, to firmly identify and characterize the infrared spectral signatures of C60+ and C60++. Given its strong radiation field and well studied photodissociation region, the reflection nebula, NGC 7023, is well suited for this study. We will use the measurements obtained from the proposed observations to study the processes that determine the ionization balance of C60 and hence other large aromatic molecules in space. This will significantly advance our understanding of the physics and chemistry of large aromatic molecules in the universe.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will use MIRI-MRS in order to cover the wavelength range required to identify the signatures of C60+ and C60++ in the cavity of the reflection nebula NGC~7023. The regions where the corresponding molecular signatures peak are located at a distance of 5, 15, and 25 arcsec respectively from the star, and thus respective observations per instrument are required for each region. For each location we will use all 4 channels of MIRI MRS and their respective sub-bands. For the observations in all regions we employ the “Extended Source, 4-Point ALL" dither pattern. The FASTR1 and SLOWR1 readout patterns will be used for MIRI MRS IFU observations respectively.

We will perform dedicated background observations for each region matched to the readout pattern and number of groups per integration and integrations per exposure of the science pointing, and with a ``2-Point" dithering pattern optimized for background sources. We also request MIRI-MRS simultaneous imaging in order to improve astrometry following Jdox recommendations.