---
id: 8017
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Luis Welbanks  Co-PIs: Matthew Nixon"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "18.5/0.0"
program_title: "Resolving Atmospheric Uncertainties and Building a Legacy Dataset for WASP-39b"
type: "GO"
---
# 8017 - Resolving Atmospheric Uncertainties and Building a Legacy Dataset for WASP-39b
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=8017
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label          | Observing Template                | Science Target |
| :------------- | :-------------------------------- | :------------- |
| NIRSpec G140H  | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) WASP-39b   |
| NIRSpec G235H  | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) WASP-39b   |

## ABSTRACT

Despite extensive observations of WASP-39b with multiple JWST instruments, the atmospheric metallicity and elemental abundance ratios of this benchmark planet remain unconstrained, with current estimates of O/H in particular ranging from solar to over 100× solar. The lack of precision in the at wavelengths from 1-3 µm, due to NIRSpec/PRISM saturation and unresolved degeneracies in the NIRISS/SOSS spectrum, has prevented a definitive determination of the planet's metallicity and water abundance.

We propose to observe two additional transits of WASP-39b using JWST's NIRSpec/G140H and NIRSpec/G235H, which will cover the critical 1–3 µm range at higher resolution and precision. These observations will resolve the current bimodal solutions for WASP-39b's atmospheric composition, allowing us to constrain the metallicity and determine the planet's true elemental abundances, including its C/O and S/O ratios. By achieving closure on this long-standing mystery, our program will cement the legacy of the JWST Transiting Exoplanet Early Release Science Program and provide a robust dataset for future studies of exoplanet atmospheres.

In addition to resolving WASP-39b's atmospheric properties, our observations will contribute to broader planetary science by testing mass-metallicity trends and core accretion models of planet formation. With the Saturn-mass WASP-39b serving as a fulcrum in these analyses, we expect our results to provide key insights into the relationship between atmospheric and bulk planetary metallicity. Our data will also enable further studies of atmospheric escape and photochemistry, setting the stage for future high-resolution atmospheric characterization efforts.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will observe two transits of WASP-39b with NIRSpec G140H/F100LP and G235H/F170LP to measure the planet's transmission spectrum from 1-3 microns. The observation set up is similar to that of exoplanet ERS transiting exoplanet program (JWST-ERS-1366).

We will use 21 groups per integration and 1288 integrations for the G140H visit, and we will use 38 groups per integration and 727 integrations for the G235H visit; this setup will keep us below 80% saturation. For each transit observation, this will give us an equal number of in-transit and out-of-transit measurements, plus 1 hour to permit a 1 hour scheduling window, plus 30 minutes of detector settling time at the start of each observation.

The central pixel will saturate during TA, but we expect this to still provide sufficient TA precision based on the results of the successful G395H visit from the ERS program which used the exact same TA setup.

We also acknowledge that a high-gain antenna move may occur during our observations; this will not be an issue for our science, as past observations have demonstrated that any effects from HGA moves dampens out within seconds.

We also request zero proprietary period for these observations, as these data seek to serve the entire exoplanet community by resolving an urgent and outstanding issue raised by the transiting exoplanet ERS program (which itself had zero proprietary period).