---
id: 8018
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Xiaojing Lin"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "19.0/0.0"
program_title: "DIVER: Deep Insights into UV Spectroscopy at the Epoch of Reionization"
type: "GO"
---
# 8018 - DIVER: Deep Insights into UV Spectroscopy at the Epoch of Reionization
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=8018
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                      | Observing Template               | Science Target           |
| :------------------------- | :------------------------------- | :----------------------- |
| G140M_F070LP_PA45_v1 | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (1) wfss_gdn_zgtr5_v1    |
| PRISM_PA45_v1p1            | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (2) prism_cat_v1p1       |
| PRISM_PA35_v1p2            | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (3) prism_cat_v1p2       |

---

## ABSTRACT

JWST has ushered in a new era for spectroscopic studies of galaxies at the Epoch of Reionization (EoR). Early observations have revealed hard radiation fields and bursty star formation, sometimes accompanied by extreme interstellar medium (ISM) conditions and unusual chemical abundance. High-quality rest-frame UV spectroscopy of EoR galaxies is urgently needed to address the knowledge gap in young stellar populations and nucleosynthesis history in the early Universe, paving the way for future studies on first galaxies. However, such data are very limited even after three cycles, restricting studies to individual cases or stacking analyses.

DIVER will conduct a deep G140M/F070LP spectroscopic survey with unparalleled efficiency in the GOODS-N field, targeting more than 140 galaxies at z=5-9. Complementary PRISM observations will place the observed UV features in a broader context of ISM conditions. Covering key UV lines (e.g., CIV, HeII, CIII], OIII]), DIVER will establish the largest and deepest UV spectral database for EoR galaxies. DIVER will directly (1) clock the star formation history by determining the distribution and redshift evolution of carbon abundance, and (2) probe the prevalence of extremely high electron density and its connection to bursty star formation and chemical peculiarity. DIVER will also lead to various high-profile science including the UV demographics of AGNs and massive stellar populations, and constraining the reionization history through LyA. With great legacy values, DIVER will advance our understanding of star formation and chemical enrichment history in the early Universe, providing a crucial foundation for studies of z>10 galaxies.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will conduct NIRSpec multi-object spectroscopy with the G140M/F070LP and PRISM/CLEAR configurations, targeting rest-frame UV spectra of >140 galaxies at z=5-9 in the GOODS-N field.

We chose F070LP over F100LP for its extended blue-end coverage (0.7-1 µm), providing spectra from 0.7 to 1.84 um. The effect of second-order dispersion at >1.27um can be well modeled and removed. The G140M/F070LP observations from the JADES GTO program have demonstrated the feasibility of this approach (Eisenstein et al. 2023). Compared to F100LP, F070LP additionally captures the LyA of galaxies z=4.8-7.0, allowing us to track the reionization history through LyA.

All the targets are spectroscopically confirmed by their [OIII] and Ha through NIRCam/WFSS (GO-1895, 3577). We propose two configurations of G140M/F070LP, allowing spectral overlap to maximize the number of targets. Setting a PA of 45 deg, we will obtain >60 galaxies per mask and at least 130 in total. Among them, 68 targets have high priorities, either at redshift > 6 with predicted CIII] fluxes greater than the detection threshold or with high Hb+OIII EWs (>1000A). We also request five PRISM configurations to maximize the number of targets that have both grating and prism spectra.

We adopt 3-shutter nodding and the NRSIRS2 readout mode for readout noise performance. For G140M/F070LP, we request 21 groups x 2 integrations per exposure and 8 exposures per mask. The on-source time per mask is 21 x 2 x 3 groups (9278.5s) x 8 exposures = 20.6h. For PRISM/CLEAR, we ask for 19 groups x 2 integrations. The on-source time per mask is 8403.2s. The total exposure time would be 41.2h for the two G140M/F070LP masks and 11.7h for the five PRISM/CLEAR.

The requested G140M/F070LP time will achieve 5sigma detection of 3e-19 erg s^-1 cm^-2 for CIII] lines. We opt G140M rather than G140H to ensure the detection rate for weak UV lines while keeping sufficient resolving power. The G140M can resolve CIII] doublets at z>6 (lambda>1.3um) with S/N > 10 (flux > 6e-19 erg s^-1 cm^-2), and identify high electron density scenarios (n_e>1e3 cm^-3). The prism exposure time is set to match that of GO-3215, which has proven adequate for high-quality spectra at z > 5.

We will redesign MSA configurations after the program acceptance to account for changes in the bad-shutter mask.