---
id: 8047
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Bingjie Wang  Co-PIs: Erica Nelson"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "19.6/0.0"
program_title: "Extremely massive galaxies in the early universe? Confirming the nature of the most model-breaking object by hunting for stellar absorption features"
type: "GO"
---
# 8047 - Extremely massive galaxies in the early universe? Confirming the nature of the most model-breaking object by hunting for stellar absorption features
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=8047
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label   | Observing Template              | Science Target |
| :------ | :------------------------------ | :------------- |
| test 2  | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (2) 49140      |

---

## ABSTRACT

The discovery of a population of red, compact objects at redshifts z > 6 is among the most surprising and significant findings from JWST. Initial stellar mass estimates from photometry suggest values as high as 10^11 Msun, exceeding theoretical limits. Follow-up 48 min spectroscopic observations have only deepened the puzzle, revealing evidence that supports two drastically different interpretations: unexpectedly massive galaxies indicated by the observed Balmer breaks, which are signatures of old stars, or dust-reddened AGNs contributing to the red continuum, suggested by the presence of broad Balmer emission lines. The resulting uncertainty in the inferred stellar mass spans over 1 dex. To resolve this, we propose NIRSpec/G395M spectroscopy to measure velocity dispersions in stellar absorption lines in the brightest massive galaxy candidate at z > 6, RUBIES-49140. It also has the most extreme stellar mass of 10^11 Msun if all the light is emitted by stars. A direct measurement of the dispersion in the most model-breaking object at the most discerning wavelengths is our best and only way forward. With a small investment of JWST time, we would be able to finally determine the origins of JWST's most enigmatic new population.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose deep G395M/290LP spectroscopy of the bright massive galaxy candidate at z=6.7, RUBIES-49140. Our primary goal is to detect stellar absorption from the prominent Balmer break.
The G395M disperser provides the perfect compromise between sensitivity and spectral resolution. Our exposure time (14h) are tuned to ensure that we can distinguish between the normal (~200km/s) and extreme (~1000km/s) velocity dispersions.
We use the Multi-Shutter Array to increase the legacy value of the observations, and have other compact red objects and high-ionization line emitters as fillers.
We do not impose roll angle constraints, but request a minimum 20% background, given the deep, background-limited nature of the proposed observations.