---
id: 8051
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 6
instrument_mode: "MIRI/LRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Javier Alvarez-Marquez  Co-PIs: Luis Colina Robledo"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "128.9/0.0"
program_title: "MIRI Spectroscopic survey at z~10: Insights into the Nature of Primordial Galaxies"
type: "GO"
---
# 8051 - MIRI Spectroscopic survey at z~10: Insights into the Nature of Primordial Galaxies
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=8051
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label             | Observing Template              | Science Target      |
| :---------------- | :------------------------------ | :------------------ |
| GHZ7              | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) GHZ7            |
|                   | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) GHZ7            |
|                   | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) GHZ7            |
| Uncover-37126     | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) Uncover-37126   |
|                   | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) Uncover-37126   |
| GHZ8              | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) GHZ8            |
|                   | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) GHZ8            |
| GHZ9              | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) GHZ9            |
|                   | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) GHZ9            |
| Uncover-26185     | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (5) Uncover-26185   |
|                   | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (5) Uncover-26185   |
| Uncover-26185     | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (5) Uncover-26185   |
| CEERS 99715       | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (6) CEERS 99715     |
| Uncover-13151     | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (7) Uncover-13151   |
|                   | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (7) Uncover-13151   |
| GHZ1              | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (8) GHZ1            |
| GN-55757-1055757  | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (9) GN-55757-1055757|
|                   | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (9) GN-55757-1055757|
| GS-20088041-207868| MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (10) GS-20088041-207868|
|                   | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (10) GS-20088041-207868|

*(Note: For observations with an empty 'Label' column but following a grouped target, the target's label has been inferred to maintain context.)*

---

## ABSTRACT

One of the most unexpected discoveries of JWST has been the large number of luminous galaxies at very early epochs in the Universe (z>10), far exceeding the predictions for current galaxy formation models. While several astrophysical scenarios have been proposed, the nature and formation of these galaxies remain largely unknown and a subject of active debate. The primary limitation comes from the narrow rest-frame spectral coverage (<0.4um) of the NIRCam and NIRSpec instruments.

This survey aims to address these gaps by leveraging MIRI LRS spectroscopy to detect key optical emission lines, such as Hbeta+[OIII]4960,5008 and Halpha, and the underline optical continuum. These observations will constrain critical astrophysical parameters, including SFR, burstiness, ionizing production efficiency, stellar mass, metallicity, and also, establish the dominant ionizing source (starburst and/or AGN) in these primordial galaxies.

The survey targets a sample of ten galaxies at redshift of ~10, including two X-ray AGN candidates. The sample spans a wide range in UV absolute magnitudes (-17.6 to -20.5), extending well below the characteristic M*_UV (-20.6 mag) at z~10. This proposal will provide critical insights into the nature of primordial galaxies, offering a comprehensive view of the build up of stars, metals, and dust in the early Universe, and the processes driving the formation of luminous galaxies in the pre-Reionization Epoch.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This survey requests deep MIRI LRS spectroscopy for a sample of ten galaxies at z~10. MIRI LRS will cover the rest-frame optical spectrum, ensuring the detection of strong optical emission lines, such as Hbeta+[OIII]4960,5008 and Halpha, and the underline optical continuum.

On-source exposure times ranging from 23ks to 60ks are requested depending on the expected fluxes of Hbeta+[OIII] and Halpha emission lines. A setup with 149 groups using the FASTR1 readout mode, the default for LRS, is chosen. The selection of 149 groups ensures that each integration is below 500 seconds, mitigating the effects of cosmic ray showers. The number of integrations and observations for each galaxy in the survey is adjusted accordingly to match the required exposure times.

A 2-column mosaic strategy is used to effectively double the number of dither pointings. The LRS template only offers a 2-point dither strategy; we chose our mosaic and column-overlap strategy to ensure the targets are placed at 4 different slit positions rather than just 2, providing better mitigation for bad or hot pixels and an improved reconstruction of the background for background subtraction. This strategy was informed by past experience with LRS data.

Target acquisition (TA) will be used where a suitable GAIA DR3 star is available within the permitted separation. For galaxies without a nearby GAIA star, a blind pointing approach will be adopted, as the JWST's pointing accuracy (~0.1") is well within the LRS slit dimension (4.7" x 0.51").

To maximize sensitivity and efficiency, this proposal requires a background-limited setting. Then, we have selected a "background no more than 20% above the minimum".

V3PA constrains have been requested in some galaxies of the sample to (i) avoid bright sources within the MIRI LRS slit field of view, and (ii) align the slit along the major axes of extended and elongated sources. However, most of the galaxies are expected to be point-like for the LRS PSF.

Based on calculations from the JWST ETC, MIRI LRS will detect an integrated Halpha line at a minimum significance level of 5-7sigma across all galaxies in the sample. The Hbeta+[OIII] lines will be detected with higher significance, i.e. integrated SNR between 7 (2%Zsun) and 30 (15%Zsun). ETC also predicts a 4-7 sigma detection of the rest-frame optical continuum at ~4900 angstroms (only for z>10) and ~5900 angstroms (all redshift) stacking several spectral elements.