---
id: 8060
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging  NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Eiichi Egami  Co-PIs: Roberto Maiolino and Armin Rest"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "42.9/0.0"
program_title: "JWST Multi-Cycle Deep Transient Survey in GOODS-S"
type: "GO, Non-Disruptive ToO"
---
# 8060 - JWST Multi-Cycle Deep Transient Survey in GOODS-S
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=8060
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label              | Observing Template                  | Science Target            |
| :----------------- | :---------------------------------- | :------------------------ |
| Ep1-Pt1            | NIRCam Imaging                      | (1) NIRCam-Epoch-1a       |
| Ep1-Pt2            | NIRCam Imaging                      | (2) NIRCam-Epoch-1b       |
| Ep2-Pt1            | NIRCam Imaging                      | (3) NIRCam-Epoch-2a       |
| Ep2-Pt2            | NIRCam Imaging                      | (4) NIRCam-Epoch-2b       |
| Ep3-Pt1            | NIRCam Imaging                      | (5) NIRCam-Epoch-3a       |
| Ep3-Pt2            | NIRCam Imaging                      | (6) NIRCam-Epoch-3b       |
| Triple Dither 1    | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy    | (7) msa_catalog_sample    |
| Triple Dither 2    | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy    | (7) msa_catalog_sample    |

---

## ABSTRACT

JWST is revolutionizing the study of high-redshift transients, opening up a new window on supernova (SN) science in particular. The power of JWST as a supernova discovery machine was most spectacularly demonstrated by the recent JADES Transient Survey (JTS), which detected 79 SNe in the ~25 square arcmin area of the JADES Deep Field in the GOODS-S down to ~30 mag (45 in 2022, 34 in 2023; ~1-2/square arcmin per epoch). Remarkably, nearly half of the sample (38 SNe) are at z>2 (reaching up to z~5), which can be compared with only four z>2 SNe discovered by HST despite an investment of ~1400 orbits (e.g., CANDELS, CLASH).
Leveraging ~230 hours of the JADES observations that produced the 2-epoch deep NIRCam data in 2022 and 2023, we propose here to conduct a first comprehensive survey of high-redshift transients by revisiting the same field over the next three cycles. In each cycle, we will carry out 3-epoch multi-band NIRCam imaging to sample light curves and follow up brighter (<29 mag) sources with deep (~7 hr on-source) NIRSpec/MSA prism (R~100) spectroscopy. Scaling from JTS, we expect to detect ~90 SNe over 3 years (~45 at z>2), ~30 of which can be targeted for NIRSpec follow-up. The obtained data will not only allow us to study the physics of individual SNe but also enable us to investigate the evolution of their properties toward high redshift, such as Type Ia luminosities (critical for dark-energy constraints) and core-collapse SN rates (effective for tracing IMF evolution). With the combination of ~30 mag depth and 5-year time baseline, this program will be uniquely powerful for probing high-redshift transients, pushing the transient frontier beyond z~5.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

**OBSERVING DESCRIPTION**
* NIRCam Imaging
We will image the JADES Deep field in GOODS-S once every year over the next 3 years (Cycles 4, 5, and 6). In each year, we will obtain NIRCam images at 3 epochs with a cadence of ~45 days. To cover most of the JADES Deep field (~25 arcmin^2), we take NIRCam images at two pointings at each epoch. The Epoch-1 images are used to detect new transients, and will be taken at a specific PA to reproduce the footprint of the original JADES-Deep images. The Epoch-2/3 images will be used to measure the light curves of discovered transients, and the pointings will be adjusted to maximize the coverage of high-priority targets (e.g., high-redshift transients). For the robust identification of transient types via SEDs, we will use 6 filters for Epoch-1 (F115W/F150W/F200W/F277W/F356W/F444W). For Epoch2/3, the 4 filters most critical for the source characterization will be used (F150W/F200W/F277W/F356W). The integration time is 1.1 hr/filter per epoch, which will achieve a 5-sigma detection limit of ~29 AB mag. For F150W/F200W/F277W/F356W, the total integration time will be 3 times longer, achieving a detection limit of ~30 mag. The corresponding observing times are 9.4 hrs for Epoch-1 and 6.9 hrs for Epoch-2 and -3, respectively. The total NIRCam observing time per cycle is 23.2 hrs.

* NIRSpec/MSA Spectroscopy
We will trigger two ToO NIRSpec/MSA observations per cycle to obtain spectra of discovered transients. Two observations are requested to cover most of the JADES Deep field with two pointings. We will use the low-resolution (R~100) prism to capture the spectra of the transients as well as to measure the redshifts of the host galaxies. Considering the faintness of many of our targets, we adopt the observing strategy successfully employed by the JADES NIRSpec Deep survey: the triple dithered, nodded, 19-group NRSIRS2 exposures with two ramps in each exposure. Hence, each sub-exposure ramp is of 1400 s duration, and each target is observed in six ramps for a total of 8400 s at each dither. All targets will be covered at all three dithers and therefore exposed for a total of 25200 s (7 hours), which will yield usable continuum spectra down to ~29 mag. The observing time is 9.8 hrs per pointing, so the total observing time per cycle is 19.7 hrs.

We provide a sample MSA design, which has been copied from DDT-6541 in the STScI Archive and used with two MSA observations (Obs 7 and 8). These observations serve as placeholders that will provide realistic schedule windows and time accounting.
The total observing time (NIRCam+NIRSpec) is therefore ~42.9 hrs per cycle. We will repeat the same set of observations in 3 cycles with a total time request of 128.7 hrs.