---
id: 8063
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Jean-Baptiste Ruffio  Co-PIs: Quinn Konopacky"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "58.9/0.0"
program_title: "Beyond C/O and metallicity: Can refractory abundances reveal the origin of the largest planets?"
type: "GO"
---
# 8063 - Beyond C/O and metallicity: Can refractory abundances reveal the origin of the largest planets?
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=8063
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                       | Observing Template       | Science Target        |
| :-------------------------- | :----------------------- | :-------------------- |
| HR 8799 bcd roll 1          | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) HR 8799           |
| HR 8799 bcd roll 2          | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) HR 8799           |
| HIP 65426 b 1-2um roll 1    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (3) HIP-65426         |
| HIP 65426 b 1-2um roll 2    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (3) HIP-65426         |
| HIP 65426 b 3-5um roll 1    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (3) HIP-65426         |
| HIP 65426 b 3-5um roll 2    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (3) HIP-65426         |
| bet Pic b roll 1            | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (4) -bet-Pic          |
| bet Pic b roll 2            | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (4) -bet-Pic          |
| YSES 1 b roll 1             | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (5) TYC-8998-760-1-b  |
| YSES 1 b roll 2             | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (5) TYC-8998-760-1-b  |
| kap And b roll 1            | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (6) -kap-And          |
| kap And b roll 2            | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (6) -kap-And          |
| HR 2562 b roll 1            | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (7) HR-2562           |
| HR 2562 b roll 2            | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (7) HR-2562           |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose to measure the abundances of four refractories (Potassium, K; Iron, Fe; Sodium, Na; Sulfur, S) in eight massive, directly imaged gas giant exoplanets (5-15 MJup; 10-160 au) with JWST/NIRSpec IFU. Refractories are elements that reside exclusively in solid form in the protoplanetary disk. In contrast, volatiles (e.g., C, O) evaporate from icy pebbles as they continuously migrate inward and cross evaporation fronts due to drag in the planet-forming disk. By measuring the relative enrichment of individual volatiles and refractories, the goal of this program is to yield new insight into the enigmatic formation mechanisms of gas giant planets on wide orbits and enable a comparison with the population of transiting planets. While young planets continuously accrete the volatile-rich gas, they can accrete various amounts of pebbles and planetesimals, but the refractory-rich pebbles get trapped by pressure bumps in the disk while larger planetesimals do not. Therefore, the volatile-to-refractory ratio (vol/ref) could indicate if massive directly-imaged planets formed preferentially through the accretion of pebbles (super-stellar vol/ref) or planetesimals (stellar vol/ref). However, disentangling the complex physical processes involved in planet-forming disks requires the measurement of multiple refractories and volatile species beyond even the recently measured and tantalizing C/S ratios. JWST now provides a unique opportunity to answer these fundamental questions by leveraging the unprecedented high-contrast sensitivity of the NIRSpec IFU at moderate spectral resolution (R~2,700; 1-2 um and 3-5 um), which has not been achievable from the best facilities on the ground.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to use the high-resolution spectroscopy mode (R~2,700) of the NIRSpec IFU to observe 8 planets around 6 separate stars (HR 8799 bcd, HIP 65426 b, HR 2562 b, bet Pic b, kap And b, YSES 1 b) in two filters: K, FeH, and Na can be detected between 1-2 um (grism/filter: G140H/F100LP), and H2S between 3-5 um (G395H/F290LP). Other than YSES 1 b, the planets are separated by 0.5-2" from their bright host star (J=3.5-7) with a typical flux ratio around 1e-5.
These bright stars will all saturate the PSF core, from 0.1" saturation to 0.5" for the brightest star beta Pictoris.
No target acquisition is required with the IFU.
We split each visit in two observatory rolls (~10 degrees apart) to avoid a chance alignment of the planet with bright speckles.
We set a position angle (PA) constraint to place the planet away from the saturate IFU slices on the detector and away from the diffraction spikes.
The number of groups and detector readout pattern is defined as a function of the stellar brightness to best manage saturation. For bet Pic and kap And, the brightest stars, we use NRSRAPID with 2 groups to limit saturation as much as possible and provide the smallest inner working angle to avoid the risk of saturating the planets.
A 16 small cycling dithers is chosen to mitigate NIRSpec spatial undersampling systematics. Only YSES 1 b, the easiest target, is set to 9 dithers.
We apply specific offsets for HR 8799 bcd and YSES 1 b to place the planets in the field of view.