---
id: 8142
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Josh Lovell"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "6.4/0.0"
program_title: "JEDIS: The JWST Eccentric debris DIsk Survey"
type: "GO"
---
# 8142 - JEDIS: The JWST Eccentric debris DIsk Survey
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=8142
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label      | Observing Template | Science Target        |
| :--------- | :----------------- | :-------------------- |
| Roll 1     | MIRI Imaging       | (1) HD-15115          |
| Roll 2     | MIRI Imaging       | (1) HD-15115          |
| BACKGROUND | MIRI Imaging       | (3) BACKGROUND_HD15115 |
| Roll 1     | MIRI Imaging       | (2) HD-53143          |
| Roll 2     | MIRI Imaging       | (2) HD-53143          |
| BACKGROUND | MIRI Imaging       | (4) BACKGROUND_HD53143 |

## ABSTRACT

Disk observations are key to understanding the histories and evolution of exoplanetary systems. Whilst bright protoplanetary disks provide crucial insights into the early formation of giant planets over the first ~1–10 Myr, fainter debris disks provide essential clues on the formation of planets and the evolution of exoplanetary architectures over 10s–1000s of Myr. By resolving rings of circumstellar material produced in debris disks, it is possible to pinpoint the locations of perturbing bodies that are either in the act of sweeping up dust, or have already cleared out dust-producing planetesimals. We propose to image two eccentric debris disks with MIRI to complete observations of all MIRI-resolvable eccentric rings. Based on their characteristic emission profiles at mid-infrared wavelengths, resolved eccentric disks in the mid-IR provide important constraints on models of planet-disk interactions. Our observations will enable tests of new theoretical predictions for mid-infrared debris disk morphologies, only possible with the sensitivity and resolution of JWST MIRI. By fitting such models to the proposed observations, we will connect eccentric debris disk images to their underlying exoplanetary architectures. Our investigation will jointly utilize the latest available ALMA data, to simultaneously model and fit mid-infrared JWST MIRI and millimeter ALMA data. Our proposed eccentric disk observations follow directly from the release of iconic JWST MIRI images of Fomalhaut's eccentric ring, and promise brand-new science to place in context how extra-Solar planetary systems are shaped after their formation.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will obtain MIRI images with the F2550W filter of two eccentric debris disks; HD15115 and HD53143. Our choice of filter maximises sensitivity to disk emission, as proven by other published JWST MIRI images of nearby debris disks. With the ETC we have determined the optimal readout strategy for our observing sequence, increasing the integration number to maximise sensitivity, whilst maximising the number of groups per integration (to avoid saturating the MIRI detectors for our setup). We note that any saturation at the location of the star will not impact our science but that our setup should avoid this entirely. We adopt the BRIGHTSKY array with FASTR1 readout to optimise SNR for given time on sources. Our exposures are only slightly longer than those of Fomalhaut, in order to produce maps with comparable sensitivity to the disk emission to conduct our science. We propose observations in the following order (per target) in a non-interruptable sequence:
1 -- observe target source at orientation 1 with a 4-point dither pattern,
2 -- observe target source at orientation 2 (a roll angle/PA offset of 10-14 degrees) with a 4-point dither pattern,
3 -- observe background (using same setup as previous observation).
Repeat for target 2. Note that targets 1 and 2 do not require imaging back-to-back, easing schedulability.
To optimally locate the sources at the center of the 4-point dither patterns of the BRIGHTSKY detector array, we add y-axis offsets of +10 and +15 to HD53143 and HD15115 target observations respectively.