---
id: 8147
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Paola Tiranti"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "15.6/0.0"
program_title: "Chasing the Great Red Spot: Exploring Coupling Between Jupiter's Atmospheric Layers"
type: "GO"
---
# 8147 - Chasing the Great Red Spot: Exploring Coupling Between Jupiter's Atmospheric Layers
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=8147
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label           | Observing Template      | Science Target  |
| :-------------- | :---------------------- | :-------------- |
| Jupiter-GRS-1-1 | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) Jupiter-GRS |
| Jupiter-GRS-1-2 | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) Jupiter-GRS |
| Jupiter-GRS-1-3 | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) Jupiter-GRS |
| Jupiter-GRS-1-4 | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) Jupiter-GRS |
| Jupiter-GRS-2-1 | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) Jupiter-GRS |
| Jupiter-GRS-2-2 | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) Jupiter-GRS |
| Jupiter-GRS-2-3 | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) Jupiter-GRS |
| Jupiter-GRS-2-4 | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) Jupiter-GRS |
| Jupiter-GRS-3-1 | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) Jupiter-GRS |
| Jupiter-GRS-3-2 | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) Jupiter-GRS |
| Jupiter-GRS-3-3 | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) Jupiter-GRS |
| Jupiter-GRS-3-4 | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) Jupiter-GRS |

---

## ABSTRACT

The upper atmospheric global energy budget of gas and ice giants remains a mystery. This is because ground-based and space instrumentation campaigns have been unable to characterize coupling between different atmospheric layers. Understanding coupling mechanisms, and how depositions of gravity waves generated in the deep troposhere dissipate through upper layers, is the key to understand the global energy balance.

During JWST ERS #1373 Jupiter's Great Red Spot (GRS) observations revealed for the first time small-scale upper-atmospheric features in the planet's ionosphere. These appeared to be a result of upward propagating waves generated in the lower atmosphere. Being just one snap-shot observation, there were no additional means to constrain to what extent does wave dynamics affect the upper atmosphere.

We propose to track the GRS across the planet with NIRspec-IFU for 3 rotations, which allows to to distinguish between stochastic and secular trends in wave activity, and therefore how waves affect the upper atmosphere above the most famous storm in the Solar System. JWST acquires high spectral resolution spectra of ionospheric H3+, enabling to study changes in temperature and density, and how these vary as waves propagate in the upper atmosphere.

Exploring dynamics of energy transport at Jupiter will enable us to further our understanding of the other giant planets, as little is known about these. Furthermore, output from this program will enable calculations of important wave parameters for exoplanetary atmospheric models and therefore contribute to the detection and characterization of exo-ionospheres.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to track Jupiter's Great Red Spot across the planet for three consecutive rotations in order to capture the evolution of the expected long-period waves in the upper atmosphere. By using NIRSpec IFU G395H/L290P we will be able to extract ionospheric H3+, an abundant ion used to probe this region. Spectral modelling will be used to derive ionospheric temperatures and chemical processes, which will help in the characterisation of how exactly does wave activity from the troposphere model and shape the upper atmosphere. These observations provide the only direct way to test model predictions and a way to understand how upper atmospheric heating is transported across giant planets.