---
id: 8155
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/TSO"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Mary Anne Limbach  Co-PIs: Johanna Vos"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "43.3/0.0"
program_title: "Storms are Brewing in the ONC: Variability Monitoring of 50 Substellar Worlds"
type: "GO"
---
# 8155 - Storms are Brewing in the ONC: Variability Monitoring of 50 Substellar Worlds
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=8155
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                     | Observing Template | Science Target           |
| :------------------------ | :----------------- | :----------------------- |
|                           | NIRCam Time Series | (1) Orion-Nebula-Cluster |
|                           | NIRCam Time Series | (1) Orion-Nebula-Cluster |
|                           | NIRCam Imaging     | (2) -45-Ori              |
|                           | NIRCam Imaging     | (3) -ups-Ori             |
|                           | NIRCam Imaging     | (4) -d-Ori               |
| Residual Persistence Check | NIRCam Dark        | NONE                     |
| Residual Persistence Check | NIRCam Dark        | NONE                     |
| Residual Persistence Check | NIRCam Dark        | NONE                     |

## ABSTRACT

We propose NIRCam dual-band variability monitoring of 50 substellar worlds in the Orion Nebula Cluster (ONC) for 36 hours. This program will observe a similarly aged (1-3 Myr) population of substellar worlds (2-75 Jupiter masses), probing two distinct atmospheric depths by capturing light curves in two bands simultaneously—on and off the water absorption feature, with the ability to measure phase lags between the two different pressure levels. These observations will offer crucial insights into how atmospheric variability shapes the characteristics of substellar objects, helping to identify trends, outliers, and targets for future spectroscopic follow-up. We will be able to detect variability with amplitudes below 0.5% for most of the sample.

The program will provide measurements of rotation periods for dozens of substellar objects, including the free-floating planetary-mass worlds down to 2 Jupiter masses, aiding in extending gyrochronology into the substellar regime and tracing the angular momentum evolution of planetary-mass objects and brown dwarfs. Additionally, these data will allow us to explore how slowed rotational collapse may influence the radii of young substellar worlds. The resulting time-domain catalog of the ONC produced from this program would provide a legacy resource for a wide range of future studies.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This program will conduct two NIRCam full field of view time series observation of the ONC: two 18-hour blocks, separated by a ~24-hour gap. The gap is required: due to JWST's data limit constraints, full-field dual-band monitoring reaches a limit after 18 hours of observation.

We use the F162M shortwave filter and the F250M longwave filter. We will read out the full detector in the rapid readout pattern at 5 groups/int (54 seconds), which is the minimum number of groups/int. This provides excellent sensitivity of substellar worlds within the field of view: e.g., based on our ETC calculations, binning the data to 15-min results in SNRs of ~200 at F250M and ~300 at F162M on the 12 Jupiter-mass, 20th magnitude substellar world. Where saturation is not an issue (which is dependent on stellar brightness/mass and the extinction), the program will also produce lightcurves for many of the stars in the field of view.

Our pointing in the ONC was chosen as it maximizes the number of substellar worlds we can observe with this program. To determine how many are captured, we leveraged archival catalogs listing the magnitude, extinction and mass estimate for sources in the ONC.