---
id: 8170
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/FS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Manuel Linares"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "7.9/0.0"
program_title: "The power of the dark side: Weighing a super-massive neutron star with JWST"
type: "GO"
---
# 8170 - The power of the dark side: Weighing a super-massive neutron star with JWST
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=8170
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :---- | :----------------- | :------------- |
| 1     | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (1) PSR J2215+5135 |

---

## ABSTRACT

JWST spectroscopy provides a unique opportunity to accurately measure the mass of the heaviest known pulsars, within compact binary millisecond pulsars (also known as redbacks and black widows). The maximum mass that a neutron star can support, Mmax, has important implications across multiple research fields, including astrophysics, nuclear physics and gravitational wave astronomy. In 2018, ground-based observations revealed one of the most massive neutron stars in the redback pulsar PSR J2215+5135, with 2.3 Solar masses (Msun). This gave tantalizing evidence that Mmax is higher than 2.3 Msun, yet the he relatively large (7%) uncertainty prevents firm conclusions. This GO program capitalizes on the superior NIR spectroscopic capabilities of JWST-NIRSpec in order to improve the accuracy of this mass measurement, down to 2%. JWST observations at 1-2 microns can measure the velocity and temperature of both the dark and bright sides of the irradiated companion star. Establishing with high confidence the existence of super-massive neutron stars, well above 2 Msun, would have profound consequences for our understanding of matter at supra-nuclear densities (>3E14 g/cm^3).

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We request the first JWST observations of the compact binary "redback" millisecond pulsar PSR J2215+5135, in order to measure its mass with 2% accuracy. Our goal is to obtain high-quality (S/N>30) and high-resolution (R=2700) NIR spectra of the companion star throughout an entire orbit, using NIRSpec on the JWST. This will allow us to i) measure radial velocities with unprecedented precision; and ii) measure the temperature of the companion throughout the orbit, which shows large variations due to irradiation by the pulsar wind.