---
id: 8173
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Pablo Rodriguez Ovalle  Co-PIs: Thibault Cavalie and Thierry Fouchet"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "14.7/0.0"
program_title: "The evolution of comet-impact products in Jupiter's atmosphere: a benchmark for auroral chemistry in giant (exo)planets"
type: "GO"
---
# 8173 - The evolution of comet-impact products in Jupiter's atmosphere: a benchmark for auroral chemistry in giant (exo)planets
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=8173
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                      | Observing Template                     | Science Target             |
| :------------------------- | :------------------------------------- | :------------------------- |
| JUPITER-FIXED-62N          | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (1) JUPITER-FIXED-62N      |
| JUPITER-FIXED-62N-bis      | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (2) JUPITER-FIXED-62N-bis  |
| JUPITER-FIXED-68N          | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (3) JUPITER-FIXED-68N      |
| JUPITER-FIXED-45N          | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (4) JUPITER-FIXED-45N      |
| JUPITER-FIXED-22N          | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (5) JUPITER-FIXED-22N      |
| JUPITER-FIXED-05N          | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (6) JUPITER-FIXED-05N      |
| JUPITER-FIXED-20S          | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (7) JUPITER-FIXED-20S      |
| JUPITER-FIXED-40S          | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (8) JUPITER-FIXER-40S      |
| JUPITER-FIXED-62S          | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (9) JUPITER-FIXED-62S      |
| JUPITER-FIXED-68S          | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (10) JUPITER-FIXED-68S     |

## ABSTRACT

We propose to extend the monitoring of exogenous species in Jupiter's atmosphere by leveraging JWST's MIRI/MRS observations, focusing on the evolution of H2O, CO2, and HCN. These species, initially introduced by the comet Shoemaker-Levy 9 (SL9) impact in 1994, have since exhibited a puzzling chemical behavior.

Our analysis of archived JWST data from programs ERS#1373 and GTO#1247 demonstrates that MRS can effectively map the meridional distribution of CO2, H2O, and HCN, revealing unexpected trends in their abundances across Jupiter's southern hemisphere. Notably, CO2 and H2O exhibit intricate latitudinal evolution in the South Polar Region, suggesting oxygen exchange between the two species, with the direction of exchange varying with latitude. These findings challenge existing models of polar chemistry and point to the involvement of multiple processes such as auroral ion-neutral chemistry, polar aerosol heterogeneous chemistry, and possibly an external oxygen influx from Io's torus.

To disentangle these processes, we propose a comprehensive mapping of HCN, H2O, and CO2 across both hemispheres, targeting regions within and outside auroral zones. By comparing the temporal abundance trends since 1994, and by studying the impact of auroral precipitation, we aim to uncover the key chemical pathways governing the destruction and production of these molecules. These observations will not only refine our understanding of Jupiter's atmospheric chemistry but also provide insights into similar processes occurring on other giant planets and exoplanets, with potential implications for understanding the chemical evolution of exoplanetary atmospheres under cometary impacts.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Jupiter - MIRI

We require nine MIRI/MRS pointings with a 4-dither pattern to scan the entire east limb of the planet from north to south. The time constraint ensures that the pointings sample the northern auroral oval. A tenth pointing, the second in the sequence, will observe the west limb at high northern latitudes, i.e. opposite to the northern auroral oval.

Our scientific objectives require to use only the SHORT and MEDIUM subbands, using the H2O band at , the HCN band at 712 cm-1, the CO2 band at 667 cm-1, and the CH4 band at 1300 cm-1 to measure the temperature. In the SHORT subband, the number of groups, five, is optimized for the high flux in channel 3. In the MEDIUM subband, eight groups will ensure a high signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) for the water lines at 1660 cm-1. Given Jupiter's strong mid-IR brightness, desaturation techniques will be applied near the strongest emission lines, particularly in channel 3.

We used the 'torus' definition to ensure that all observations will be focused on the planet's limb, as this is critical for increasing radiance from low-abundance species and maximizing the SNR.

Timing and Constraints: We will avoid interference from moons or their shadows blocking the target. The field of view (FOV) must remain fixed on the planet's limb to ensure consistent meridional coverage across 10 separate MIRI exposures. The first exposure (62°N, west limb) must capture the auroral oval within the MIRI/MRS FOV (110° ± 20°W) to obtain a reference non-auroral region in the second exposure (62°N, east limb).

(1-10) Jupiter limb scan - MIRI MRS 4.9–28.5 microns