---
id: 8185
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Arjan Bik  Co-PIs: Maria Claudia Ramirez-Tannus"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "8.6/0.0"
program_title: "A pocket of last resistance: characterizing the evaporating globule near a massive O-star binary"
type: "GO"
---
# 8185 - A pocket of last resistance: characterizing the evaporating globule near a massive O-star binary
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=8185
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label          | Observing Template                | Science Target                     |
| :------------- | :-------------------------------- | :--------------------------------- |
| NIRSPEC        | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy          | (1) Pismis24_globule1 NIRSPEC      |
| NIRSPEC_bg     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy          | (2) Pismis24_globule1_NIRSPEC_bg   |
| MIRI           | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (5) Pismis24_globule1_MIRI         |
| MIRI_bg        | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) Pismis24_globule1 MIRI bkg     |

---

## ABSTRACT

Stellar feedback, in the form of UV radiation from massive stars, gradually destroys the molecular cloud the stars formed in. The last pockets of last resistance against the progressing ionization front are the densest cores in the molecular cloud. These pre- and protostellar cores become exposed to the UV radiation when the lower density material around them evaporates and they become visible as evaporating globules. The mass of the forming proto stars in these globules as their protostellar envelopes are evaporated by the UV field. We propose NIRSPEC and MIRI/MRS spectroscopy of a large evaporating globule located very close to one of the most massive binaries in our Galaxy, Pismis24_1. The exceptionally high levels of FUV and EUV radiation incident on this globule make it a unique case. These observations will provide a benchmark for studying the physical and chemical properties, as well as the evolution of the evaporating wind, under extreme EUV and FUV irradiation — far beyond the reach of current modeling efforts. Moreover, the proposed spectra will help us identify the nature of the various observed components within this globule, allowing us to derive mass-loss rates and a life time of the globule and the proto-planetary disks harbored inside.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose NIRSPEC G235H and G395H integral field spectroscopy and MIRI/MRS integral field spectroscopy of an evaporating globule very close to one of the most massive binaries in our galaxy. The spatially resolved spectra will be used to determine the density and temperature of the neutral as well as the ionized emission from the evaporating flow.

The globule is expected to fill the entire field of view from NIRSPEC IFU and MIRI/MRS. We will obtain a dedicated background observations close by to correct for the telescope background as well as the emission from the surrounding HII region and the diffuse PDR emission. Simultaneous MIRI imaging will be used to take Mid-infrared images of the Pismis 24 cluster population. Such simultaneous imaging enabled the discovery of this globule in the first place. The simultaneous imaging of the background observations will be used to image the globule at longer wavelength (F1130W, F1280W and F1500W).

For NIRSPEC we use the NRSRAPID readout and 5 groups to avoid saturation of the bright emission lines with a dither cycle pattern of 9 positions to improve the SNR in the fainter lines and improve the spatial sampling of the PSF. We use a LEAKCAL observation to correct for the emission from the bright stars in Pismis 14 which fall in the MSA field of view. For MIRI/MRS we use the extended source dither pattern with 4 positions and 20 groups to reach the required SNR.