---
id: 8204
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Jenny Greene  Co-PIs: Ivo Labbe"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "17.0/0.0"
program_title: "Give me a break: the search for stars in a prototypical Little Red Dot"
type: "GO"
---
# 8204 - Give me a break: the search for stars in a prototypical Little Red Dot
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=8204
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                        | Observing Template            | Science Target                      |
| :--------------------------- | :---------------------------- | :---------------------------------- |
| Plan25-09-02-main_fill | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (1) main_onmask_star_fillerv6culled |
| er-b                         |                               |                                     |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose a search for stellar absorption in the Balmer break of the brightest known `Little Red Dot'. Despite two years of intense study with JWST, we still do not know whether these abundant and compact red sources are extraordinarily dense stellar systems, or red active galactic nuclei. A clean test will be provided by detecting (or not) Balmer absorption around the break. This is the only source bright enough to do so unambiguously, and so stands to teach us the nature of these new enigmatic objects.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose deep G235M/170LP+G395M/290LP spectroscopy of the brightest known spectroscopically confirmed Little Red Dot (LRD), with F444W=22 AB mag. Our primary goals are (1) to determine if we can detect stellar absorption from the prominent Balmer break and (2) to measure associated narrow absorption in both Hα and Hβ, to determine the covering fraction and density of the absorbing clouds.

We choose medium resolution gratings, which are very well-matched to the broad line-widths of the emission lines and are required to resolve stellar absorption features if present. Our exposure times (G235M/170LP = 10hr; G395M/290LP=3hr) are tuned to ensure robust detection of the CaK absorption line even in the presence of possibly significant contamination from an AGN continuum.

We will use the Multi-Shutter Array to increase the legacy value of the observations, and have other known LRDs and galaxies at comparable redshifts from the UNCOVER field as filler.