---
id: 8213
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Jan Scholtz"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "6.7/0.0"
program_title: "Warm or gone? Searching for molecular gas in a massive quiescent galaxy at z = 3"
type: "GO"
---
# 8213 - Warm or gone? Searching for molecular gas in a massive quiescent galaxy at z = 3
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=8213
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label              | Observing Template                | Science Target        |
| :----------------- | :-------------------------------- | :-------------------- |
| MIRI               | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) Pablo_galaxy      |
| MIRI_background    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) Pablo_galaxy-bkg  |

---

## ABSTRACT

The discovery of massive quiescent galaxies at z>3 with JWST has shown that the galaxy evolution is much faster than previously thought. Galaxies need to grow to le11 Msol and quench within the first billion years of cosmic time. Such short timescales may require significantly stronger and faster feedback from supermassive black holes than at Cosmic Noon, but the exact quenching mechanism still eludes us. In the search for clues, an overlooked direction has been the warm ISM/CGM, which theoretical models suggest should hold the key to understanding feedback. We propose deep MIRI-MRS observations of warm molecular gas in GS-15078 - a massive quiescent galaxy at z~3.06, hosting an AGN with strong neutral gas outflows yet no evidence for cold molecular gas or dust from ultra-deep ALMA observations. These pioneering observations will illuminate the last corner where molecular gas can still be found, answering the question of whether this gas phase is indeed gone, or if it is still present, but heated to higher temperatures. Regardless of the detection, this observation will determine the quenching mechanism of this quiescent galaxy: 1) starvation of the galaxy or 2) preventative feedback by heating the gas

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We target a single galaxy with MIRI-MRS using the A-arm to target H2 (1–0) S(1) emission line.
We require an emission line sensitivity at 8.586 microns down to 1e-17 erg/s/cm2. We set the detector with SLOW! readout pattern with 20 groups per integration. In total, we need 32 integrations to reach the desired sensitivity - 4.47 h in total. We chose a 4-point dither pattern optimized for an extended source. We require dedicated background observations of a blank part of the sky. The background observations are set up in the same manner as a single integration for our on-target integrations. We do not require any target acquisition as the pointing accuracy of the telescope is sufficient to centre the target in the FoV of the telescope.