---
id: 8217
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Dieu Nguyen  Co-PIs: Michele Cappellari"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "48.0/0.0"
program_title: "Pushing the limit of supermassive black holes correlations to ultramassive galaxies"
type: "GO"
---
# 8217 - Pushing the limit of supermassive black holes correlations to ultramassive galaxies
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=8217
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                               | Observing Template             | Science Target                         |
| :---------------------------------- | :----------------------------- | :------------------------------------- |
| 2MASX-J13481074+0251102             | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy       | (1) 2MASX-J13481074+0251102           |
| 2MASX-J13481074+0251102             | NIRCam Imaging                 | (1) 2MASX-J13481074+0251102           |
| 2MASX-J12571157-1724344             | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy       | (2) 2MASX-J12571157-1724344           |
| 2MASX-J12571157-1724344             | NIRCam Imaging                 | (2) 2MASX-J12571157-1724344           |
| 2MASX-J22354078+0129053             | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy       | (3) 2MASX-J22354078+0129053           |
| 2MASX-J22354078+0129053             | NIRCam Imaging                 | (3) 2MASX-J22354078+0129053           |
| 2MASX-J04385250-2206391             | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy       | (4) 2MASX-J04385250-2206391           |
| 2MASX-J04385250-2206391             | NIRCam Imaging                 | (4) 2MASX-J04385250-2206391           |
| 2MASXJ10194430-0038173             | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy       | (5) 2MASXJ10194430-0038173           |
| 2MASXJ10194430-0038173             | NIRCam Imaging                 | (5) 2MASXJ10194430-0038173           |
| 2MASS-J12464745+0007029             | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy       | (6) 2MASS-J12464745+0007029           |
| 2MASS-J12464745+0007029             | NIRCam Imaging                 | (6) 2MASS-J12464745+0007029           |
| 2MASX-J00034964+0203594             | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy       | (7) 2MASX-J00034964+0203594           |
| 2MASX-J00034964+0203594             | NIRCam Imaging                 | (10) 2MASX-J15165808-0106394          |
| 2MASX-J12052321+1022461             | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy       | (8) 2MASX-J12052321+1022461           |
| 2MASX-J12052321+1022461             | NIRCam Imaging                 | (8) 2MASX-J12052321+1022461           |
| 2MASX-J15342642-0119003             | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy       | (9) 2MASX-J15342642-0119003           |
| 2MASX-J15342642-0119003             | NIRCam Imaging                 | (9) 2MASX-J15342642-0119003           |
| 2MASX-J15165808-0106394             | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy       | (10) 2MASX-J15165808-0106394          |
| 2MASX-J15165808-0106394             | NIRCam Imaging                 | (10) 2MASX-J15165808-0106394          |
| 2MASX-J01313288+0033210             | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy       | (11) 2MASX-J01313288+0033210          |
| 2MASX-J01313288+0033210             | NIRCam Imaging                 | (11) 2MASX-J01313288+0033210          |
| 2MASX-J15320112+2534178             | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy       | (12) 2MASX-J15320112+2534178          |
| 2MASX-J15320112+2534178             | NIRCam Imaging                 | (12) 2MASX-J15320112+2534178          |

## ABSTRACT

Supermassive black holes (BH) are a crucial ingredient for galaxy evolution. They closely correlate with galaxy properties, especially velocity dispersion, below a critical stellar mass of about two hundred billion (2e11) Solar masses. But the situation is less clear and highly debated for larger galaxy masses. This uncertainty is due to the lack of nearby very massive galaxies for which their BH masses can be measured reliably with current instruments. With its stable and well-characterized PSF and high spatial resolution, JWST allows us to expand the volume where BH mass can be measured via stellar dynamics and reach the most massive galaxies. Here we propose to observe with JWST/NIRSpec and NIRCam the ultimate full-sky sample of 12 ultramassive galaxies accessible with JWST in various environments. We make detailed simulations of the BH extractions for all target galaxies and show that different BH formation scenarios provide unambiguously different results for the galaxy sample we propose. This program will provide a definitive view of this essential yet poorly-understood regime of ultramassive black holes.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to robustly measure supermassive black hole (BH) mass in a carefully selected full-sky sample of the 12 ultramassive galaxies (i.e., their stellar masses are larger than two thousand and five hundred billion (2.5e12) Solar masses) using NIRSpec and NIRCam observations. These highest mass galaxies form the definitive sample of such galaxies accessible with JWST and are superior to others, e.g., MASSIVE (Ma et al. 2014) and M3G (Krajnovic et al. 2018). For example, our highest mass galaxies sample is not subject to seeing limited like these ground-based samples due to the atmosphere being contamination-free and covering the whole sky and a wide range of environments from isolations to dense clusters. Therefore, it is the best sample to understand BH growth mechanisms.

Specifically, we will use the JWST/NIRSpec integral field spectrograph (IFS) observational cube to extract the two-dimensional maps of the stellar (or gas when detected) kinematics within the nuclear portion of a galaxy. Also, we will use the NIRCam observation to construct the mass profile of the stellar component. A full justification of the required instrument configuration is provided later in the proposal, but we summarize them here as follows:

(1) The NIRSpec IFS with G235H/F170 LP grating: This observation has a spectral resolving power of R ~ 3000, which corresponds to the instrumental dispersion of sigma_instr ~58 km/s, perfectly matched the centers of massive galaxies where velocity dispersion ~300 km/s, and the spatial resolution of 0.1” within a single field-of-view of 3" x 3" of galaxy nuclei close to the BH, enough to resolve any BH with mass above one billion Solar masses. The wavelength coverage of (1.66-3.17 um) of NIRSpec can detect the CO-absorption features commonly used to measure the nuclear-stellar kinematics of the most massive galaxies. The stable and well-characterized point spread function (PSF), as well as the high angular resolution of JWST are crucial to probe the central cores of massive galaxies.

The proposed NIRSpec observations are designed to have sufficient S/N for resolving stellar kinematics over scales of 0.1" near the galaxy center. Thus, the total observing time is required for each galaxy by giving the input of surface brightness at the effective radius and Sersic index to the JWST/ETC. Based on the NIRSpec IFS simulations, achieving a high-S/N map of >= 40 per spaxel within the central 2" x 2" area (lower-S/N of spaxels outside that area will be binned together) is required to be able to measure V, sigma, h3, and h4 (Cappellari et al. 2011), which is required to constrain the nuclei kinematics, dynamics, and SMBH mass via the JAM models robustly, giving the estimated exposure time/total allocation time for NIRSpec data shown in Observing Summary.

(2) Besides NIRSpec, the NIRCam observations in a wide field (129" x 129”) and long-wavelength channel of F250M filter (2.4-2.6 um) are necessary to model the stellar mass profile of the galaxy accurately. These observations are high spatial resolution and sampling (pixel size of 0.063) that allow us to probe the galaxy-stellar mass profile down to the BH's sphere of influence (SOI) scale, thus reducing the degeneracy between stellar mass and black hole mass. The short wavelength imaging channel will use the F115W filter (1-1.3 um) to simultaneously image bluer wavelengths, providing additional color information to constrain possible stellar population variations.

The F250M image is required with sufficient S/N to create an accurate mass-follow-light map for each galaxy. We will use both the long- (F250M) and the additional short-wavelength F115W (1.0-1.3 um) channels. These images will provide additional (F115W-F250M)-color information to constrain possible stellar population variations (Nguyen et al. 2019). Here, given the central surface brightness and the Sersic index and the number of groups per integration, the JWST/ETC provides the required S/N >= 5 per pixel over that subarray. This approach achieves an estimated exposure time/total allocation time for NIRCam data shown in Observing Summary.