---
id: 8245
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Paula Sanchez Saez  Co-PIs: Megan Masterson"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "3.6/0.0"
program_title: "Mid-infrared overview of the turning on AGN candidate and X-ray QPE emitter SDSS1335+0728"
type: "GO"
---
# 8245 - Mid-infrared overview of the turning on AGN candidate and X-ray QPE emitter SDSS1335+0728
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=8245
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                   | Observing Template                | Science Target             |
| :---------------------- | :-------------------------------- | :------------------------- |
| SDSS1335+0728           | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) SDSS1335+0728          |
| SDSS1335+0728_bkg       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) SDSS1335+0728_bkg      |

---

## ABSTRACT

The galaxy SDSS1335+0728, which had exhibited no prior optical variations during the previous two decades, began showing significant nuclear variability in the Zwicky Transient Facility (ZTF) alert stream in December 2019. In February 2024, more than four years after the first ZTF alert, it started showing variable X-ray emission. A recent NICER monitoring program revealed a Quasi-Periodic Eruption (QPE) X-ray light curve. The X-ray/UV/optical behavior, coupled with the host-galaxy properties, suggests that SDSS1335+0728 hosts a one million solar mass black hole that is currently turning on. We propose JWST MIRI MRS spectroscopy to better understand the nature of the activity observed in SDSS1335+0728, confirm or rule out the ‘turning on' AGN hypothesis, and probe the formation of a dusty torus in this potential newborn AGN.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Our proposed observations use JWST MIRI MRS to understand the recent optical, X-ray, and MIR nuclear transient SDSS1335+0728. We will use all channels and gratings to cover the entire 5-28 micron spectrum. Our observations will be executed with the appropriate 4-point dither pattern for point sources and with 100 groups x 1, 1, 2 integrations in the short, medium, and long modes, respectively, to reach our desired SNR. We will use the full frame and fast readout modes, and for improved astrometry, we request simultaneous MIRI imaging. The host galaxy emission will fill the entire MIRI FOV, and thus, we request an additional background observation away from the host galaxy. These observations should be taken immediately following our science observations in a non-interruptible sequence. Our target is bright, and thus, it is sufficient to take a single background observation with the same number of groups and integrations as our science observations. Lastly, as the nucleus is a point source, we do not require dedicated target acquisition observations, and it suffices to place the target with the default JWST pointing accuracy.