---
id: 8258
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Rui Marques-Chaves  Co-PIs: Daniel Schaerer"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "38.0/0.0"
program_title: "Formation and nature of the UV-brightest starbursts in the distant Universe"
type: "GO"
---
# 8258 - Formation and nature of the UV-brightest starbursts in the distant Universe
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=8258
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label     | Observing Template        | Science Target      |
| :-------- | :------------------------ | :------------------ |
| NIRSpec   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (1) J0006+2452      |
| NIRCam    | NIRCam Imaging            | (1) J0006+2452      |
| NIRSpec   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (3) J0121+0025      |
| NIRCam    | NIRCam Imaging            | (3) J0121+0025      |
| NIRSpec   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (4) J0817+3241      |
| NIRCam    | NIRCam Imaging            | (4) J0817+3241      |
| NIRSpec   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (5) J0850+1549      |
| NIRCam    | NIRCam Imaging            | (5) J0850+1549      |
| NIRSpec   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (6) J0950+0523      |
| NIRCam    | NIRCam Imaging            | (6) J0950+0523      |
| NIRSpec   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (7) J1220+0842      |
| NIRCam    | NIRCam Imaging            | (7) J1220+0842      |
| NIRSpec   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (9) J1249+1550      |
| NIRCam    | NIRCam Imaging            | (9) J1249+1550      |
| NIRSpec   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (10) J1316+2614     |
| NIRCam    | NIRCam Imaging            | (10) J1316+2614     |
| NIRSpec   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (11) J1415+2036     |
| NIRCam    | NIRCam Imaging            | (11) J1415+2036     |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose JWST observations of a new class of extremely UV-bright galaxies at z~2-4 with properties unlike anything observed so far, but reminiscent of those expected in the early Universe. These sources are the UV-brightest starbursts known, with surface densities and spectral features akin to young massive star clusters. Their rest-UV spectra show indications of Very Massive Stars and potential top-heavy IMFs, rarely seen in the local Universe but predicted at very high redshifts. They are also the strongest LyC-emitting galaxies known so far, questioning the paradigm of cosmic reionization dominated by UV-faint sources. On top of that, they appear to be formed through massive inflows, perhaps monolithically, with exceptionally high star formation efficiencies leading to very short gas depletion timescales (few tens Myr). These enigmatic objects may completely change our understanding of UV-bright galaxies and their potential role in early galaxy formation and cosmic reionization. Does this new galaxy population represent a dominant, yet previously unproved mode of star formation and LyC escape at high redshift? Are they archetypes of the now well-established overabundant population of UV-bright galaxies at z>10, but whose nature remains unknown? In this Small proposal (38hrs), we request high-SNR JWST NIRSpec/IFU and NIRCam observations to unambiguously establish all these exceptional properties, including the confirmation and characterization of extreme stellar populations and their ionizing output, unveil extreme galaxy formation mechanisms and stellar assembly histories, and test a new mode of LyC escape, a game changer in our census of the sources of reionization.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This program aims to observe with JWST/NIRSpec integral-field spectroscopy and NIRCam imaging a newly discovered sample of extremely UV-bright and strong LyC emitters at z=2-4. The sample consists of nine sources in total.

NIRSpec/IFU medium-resolution: All the important emission lines of interest (stellar and nebular), such as HeII4686, CIV 5808, Balmer lines, [OIII]4363/4959/5007,and other faint lines, will be available with G235 (two sources) or the combination of G140+G235 (seven sources). The medium-resolution grating is requested for all (G140M-100LP and/or G235M-170LP). A 4-point dither pattern is requested in each observation, together with a NRSIRS2 readout mode. The Leakcal is not requested in these observations.

NIRCam imaging uses a set of two filters to observe simultaneusly the rest-frame UV and near-IR emission of each galaxy. NIRCam observations with F070W in the short wavelenght (SW) channel and F444W in the long wavelenght (LW) channel will probe the rest-frame UV and near-IR in these sources. Observations will use SUBARRAY FULL and standard subpixel dither pather with 4 positions. The selected readout mode is BRIGHT2.