---
id: 8281
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Simona Vegetti  Co-PIs: John McKean"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "30.4/0.0"
program_title: "A gravitational perturber in B1938+666: a challenge for CDM or an unusual globular cluster?"
type: "GO"
---
# 8281 - A gravitational perturber in B1938+666: a challenge for CDM or an unusual globular cluster?
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=8281
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :---- | :----------------- | :------------- |
| 1     | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) B1938+666  |

---

## ABSTRACT

Cold Dark Matter (CDM) is the current standard paradigm for galaxy formation and successfully reproduces a wide variety of observations. Still, it remains largely untested in the non-linear sub-galactic regime. A clear prediction of this model is that many low-mass halos should surround any galaxy and should populate its line of sight. As most of these objects are expected to be completely dark, strong gravitational lensing provides a unique channel to detect them and determine their properties. Very long baseline interferometric observations at 1.7 GHz of the gravitational lens system B1938+666 have led to the gravitational detection of an unprecedentedly low-mass object of unknown nature. With a total mass of just 10^6 M_sun, it could be a non-luminous CDM halo, a globular cluster, or an ultra-compact dwarf galaxy. However, its inferred properties are inconsistent with those predicted for CDM dark matter halos, and unusual when compared to globular clusters in the Local Universe. Its high concentration agrees better with that of a core-collapsed dark matter halo, as is possible in self-interacting dark matter models. The JWST observations requested here are the final and crucial ingredient in determining the nature of this detected object. Measuring or placing a meaningful lower limit on its mass-to-light ratio is the most reliable avenue to robustly distinguish between a globular cluster, a highly concentrated dark matter halo, and an ultra-compact dwarf galaxy. These JWST observations will unleash the full impact of this remarkable discovery, with implications either for the nature of dark-matter or for the evolution of compact stellar systems across cosmic time.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We request observations with NIRCam in the F115W filter to image the strong gravitational lens system B1938+666 (lens redshift 0.881, source redshift 2.059). We will use these observations to measure the mass-to-light ratio of a 10^6 M_sun object, which has been recently gravitationally detected from very long baseline interferometric observations at 1.7 GHz. This measurement will allow us to test whether the detected object is a globular cluster, an ultra-compact dwarf galaxy, or a dark-matter halo. In the latter case the cold dark matter paradigm will be excluded. Unlike existing Keck, HST/WFC2 and HST/NICMOS data of the same system, these JWST observations will provide the necessary depth, angular resolution and wavelength coverage to achieve our scientific goal. The choice of filter is motivated by the need to maximise the angular resolution and the contrast between the emission from the lensing galaxy and Einstein ring, and that from the detected object. Under the assumption that the detected object is a globular cluster (see proposal for more details), we have estimated a conservative lower limit on its apparent AB magnitude of 30.15. The exposure time is calculated to reach a detection threshold of 10 sigma, once the shot noise from the Einstein ring and the lensing galaxy emission has been modelled and subtracted. From simulations, we find that this is reached in 24.6 hours of exposure time (30.4 hours in total). We apply a standard dither pattern to mitigate detector defects and improve the final resolution of the images.