---
id: 8290
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS  NIRCam/Imaging  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Goeran Oestlin"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "19.9/0.0"
program_title: "The obscured regions of the nearest Lyman continuum leaker: massive stars or accreting black holes?"
type: "GO"
---
# 8290 - The obscured regions of the nearest Lyman continuum leaker: massive stars or accreting black holes?
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=8290
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label         | Observing Template                     | Science Target          |
| :------------ | :------------------------------------- | :---------------------- |
| MRS-knot-B    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (4) ESO-350-IG-038-B    |
| MRS-knot-C    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (5) ESO-350-IG-038-C    |
| MRS-sky       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (2) ESO-350-IG-038-sky  |
| NIRSPEC-A     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy               | (3) ESO-350-IG-038-A    |
| NIRSPEC-B     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy               | (4) ESO-350-IG-038-B    |
| NIRSPEC-C     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy               | (5) ESO-350-IG-038-C    |
| NIRCAM        | NIRCam Imaging                         | (1) ESO-350-IG-038      |

---

## ABSTRACT

Escaping Lyman continuum radiation from low mass star forming galaxies likely were the agents of cosmic reionization at a redshift z>6. At the redshifts in question, the sightlines are completely opaque to Lyman continuum (LyC), making direct measurements of the LyC escape fractions impossible to measure directly. Therefore attention has been drawn to local universe analogs, where the escape fraction can be measured directly, and physical conditions studied in a detail noit possible at high redshifts. Haro11 is the nearest known Lyman continuum emitting galaxy and thereby offers unique opportunities to explore the physical conditions that allows LyC to escape into intergalactic space. It is a dwarf galaxy merger, and present 3 starburst knots (A, B, and C), each of which have been studied extensively, and it contains an unusually rich population of young massive star clusters. Recent COS spectroscopy shows LyC to be emitted from knots B and C. Curioisly, both these knots contain a luminous compact X-ray source, while knot A does not. This raises questions as to whether the LyC escape is connected to accreting balck holes. With the proposed observations we will search for the sites of X-ray emission and determine if they are low mass AGN by revealing themselves through hot dust and [NeV], [NeVI] emission. We will in parallel probe young obscured star clusters, for a full census of the ionizing photon production contributed by massive stars, and map the dust geomertry Hence we will be able to gauge the relative contributions from stars and X-ray sources to the ionization budget of Haro11 - the nearest Lyman continuum leaker.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will observe Haro11 with JWST, using the following modes: NIRCam imaging, NIRSPEC/IFU spectroscopy, MIRI MRS spectroscopy (with simultaneous imaging).

With NIRCam we will use SW filters F090W, F150W, F210M; and LW filters F250M, F335M and F360M using SHALLOW4 readout with 8 groups per integration, 1 integration per position, and 8 dither positions. The images would be used to search for embedded star clusters and determine their age and ionizing photon output. The F335M images will be used to map the PAH feauture at 3.3 micron.

With NIRSPEC/IFU we will use the G140H/F100LP and G235H/F170LP settings and obtain one observation for each of the three star forming knots (A, B and C). We will use NRSIRS2 readout, with 12/10 groups per integration, and employ the 4-POINT dithering pattern for a total exposure of 3560/2599s (in G235H and G140H, respectively) per target. No separate sky observations are needed for these observations. The data will be used to map emission lines, primarily the ones from ionized hydrogen, to model the nebular spectrum and the reddening geometrical distribution.

With MIRI/MRS we will use two pointings to observe knot B and C, known to contain compact X-ray sources, for the full wavelength setting using FASTR1 readout, 100 groups per integration, 2 integrations per position and 4 positions (4-POINT dither pattern) for an exposure time of 2231s per setting and target. We add simultaneous imaging with F770W as recommended for accurate astrometry. The observations of B and C are grouped together with a sky observation with the same exposure parameters, but half the exposure time. We will position the sky exposures such that Haro11 is included in the imager and observe in F560W, F770W and F2100W.