---
id: 8309
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/LRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Elijah Mullens  Co-PIs: Sarah Moran"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "37.7/0.0"
program_title: "It’s (poly)Morphin’ Time! Solving the quartz quandary of WASP-17b"
type: "GO"
---
# 8309 - It’s (poly)Morphin’ Time! Solving the quartz quandary of WASP-17b
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=8309
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                  | Observing Template              | Science Target |
| :--------------------- | :------------------------------ | :------------- |
| WASP-17b transit 1     | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) WASP-17    |
| WASP-17b transit 2     | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) WASP-17    |
| WASP-17b eclipse 1     | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) WASP-17    |

---

## ABSTRACT

The discovery of SiO2 clouds on the hot Jupiter WASP-17b marked the first time the composition of clouds on a transiting exoplanet has been conclusively determined. This initial detection gives us a unique opportunity to dive deeper and reveal the structure of cloud particles themselves.
It is still a mystery of whether SiO2 condenses out on the limb and sublimates on the dayside, or if it is thermally processed via advection. Silicate materials can have different polymorphs --i.e., crystal arrangements-- depending on their initial formation mechanism and thermal processing. Leveraging the large scale height and fantastic signal-to-noise of WASP-17b, we will be able to understand the planet's overall atmospheric composition, thermal gradients throughout its atmosphere, and its ongoing cloud processing.
Our program will observe two transits and one eclipse (29.6 hours total) using MIRI-LRS to obtain spectra from 7-12 microns with an observing plan optimized to 1) precisely determine the polymorph of SiO2 and constrain the thermal and dynamical conditions on the limb, 2) unearth the full story of SiO2 processing by probing for dayside silicate gas or quartz, and 3) additionally probe for forsterite clouds and cloud grain orientation. Our findings will paint a full picture of quartz in WASP-17b, which can be applied to silicate mineralogy in hot Jupiters, brown dwarfs, and discs as a whole

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will use MIRI-LRS to observe two transit events and one eclipse event of the hot Jupiter WASP-17b. We will combine these observations with the existing MIRI-LRS spectra from GTO-1353 to increase SNR, enabling the detection of specific polymorph cloud species. Each transit/eclipse exposure is 9.86 hours (without overheads) which include pre-, during, and post-event integrations for a total of 29.6 hours.
We set the saturation to 0.65 of the ETC full well and will bin the observations in time to ensure we reach the needed signal-to-noise in the reddest wavelengths where the polymorph features are prominent.
Due to the number of groups and integrations required to cover the full transit event we need to split our observations into at least two exposures.
To ensure that this split does not occur in the ingress/egress of the transit event we split them using three exposures each consisting of the same number of integrations. With this set-up the exposures will be split into three with the first 'gap' in the pre-transit baseline and the second 'gap' during the transit but not impacting ingress or egress. This multi-exposure set-up is preferred to linking two seperate visits as a consecutive non-interupted sequence as the time lost between exposures is minimal compared to ~6 min expected for a non-interupted sequence.
All of our three observations have the same set-up with only the phase constraints differing for the eclipse measurement.
We perform TA on our target star using 8 groups for a single intergration and the same set-up for a LRS verification image taken at the start of the first visit for each paring.
The telescope will need to be oriented from given constraints in the APT to prevent overlap from nearby stars. Additionally, TA will be performed on the target (WASP-17) directly.