---
id: 8317
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 6
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Mariska Kriek"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "7.6/0.0"
program_title: "The Return of the Giants: Constraining the TP-AGB Phase across Cosmic Time"
type: "GO"
---
# 8317 - The Return of the Giants: Constraining the TP-AGB Phase across Cosmic Time
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=8317
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label          | Observing Template                | Science Target                     |
| :------------- | :-------------------------------- | :--------------------------------- |
| prism_SUSPENSE | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (1) SUSPENSE_v10_correct_coords |

---

## ABSTRACT

The thermally pulsing asymptotic giant branch (TP-AGB) phase plays a critical role in shaping the spectral energy distributions of galaxies, particularly at near-infrared wavelengths. However, the treatment of TP-AGB stars in stellar population synthesis (SPS) models remains highly uncertain. Existing models are calibrated using stars in the Milky Way and nearby galaxies, which do not fully capture the diversity of stellar environments in terms of age and metallicity. As a result, different SPS models handle the TP-AGB phase differently, potentially leading to significant systematic uncertainties in the stellar masses and other population properties of distant galaxies.

In this proposal, we aim to improve the treatment of TP-AGB stars by leveraging data from the public JWST-SUSPENSE program, which obtained ultradeep, medium-resolution spectra of quiescent galaxies at redshifts 1–3. These spectra enable robust age and metallicity measurements for 15 such galaxies. Additionally, the galaxies span a range of ages and metallicities, capturing the phases where TP-AGB stars are most dominant (0.6–2 Gyr). We propose to observe these galaxies for 5 hours with the JWST/NIRSpec prism (0.6–5.3 m) to assess the contribution of TP-AGB stars as a function of age and metallicity. The prism mode provides sufficient resolution to detect the broad spectral features characteristic of TP-AGB stars. By comparing the spectra with multiple SPS models and tuning TP-AGB parameters, we will constrain this evolutionary phase. The resulting improved TP-AGB treatment will directly impact galaxy evolution studies, yielding more accurate stellar population properties of galaxies across cosmic time.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

A primary goal of this program is to take NIRSpec-MSA PRISM R=100 spectra to measure TP-AGB features in 15 relatively bright quiescent galaxies at 1<z<3. The galaxies have previously been observed with NIRSpec-MSA and the G140M-F100LP dispersion-filter combination by the JWST Cycle 1 SUSPENSE program (2110), and already have robust measurements of the ages and metallicities, needed to address the science goals of this program. We will also target fainter quiescent galaxies and star-forming galaxies at similar and higher redshifts, with priority given to targets already observed by the SUSPENSE program. HST images (F160W and F814W) have been used for the astrometry, and thus no pre-imaging is needed. This strategy was successfully applied for the 2110 program, targeting the same field. For the final mask design we will also include the public COSMOS-Web imaging.

We will use 3-shutter slits and a (custom) 2-position nodding pattern. For primary targets we extend the slits to 4 or 5 shutters, where possible. Our current mask design does allow targets in areas affected by open shutters. Our field can be observed for a limited PA range (64-85 degrees and 234-254 degrees). Our optimal PA would be close to the PA of the 2110 program (71.6174), but nearly all other allowed PAs also target nearly all primary galaxies.

We plan to observe this pointing/configuration for nearly 5 hr, consisting of 8 exposures of 2218 seconds each, with 15 groups per integration and 2 integrations per exposure. Thus, there are 4 exposures for each nod position. We will use the NRSIRS2 read-out mode. Total integration time is 4.9 hr.