---
id: 8322
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging  NIRISS/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Maximilian Haeberle"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "2.6/0.8"
program_title: "Astrometric monitoring of the fast stars around the intermediate-mass black hole in Omega Centauri"
type: "GO"
---
# 8322 - Astrometric monitoring of the fast stars around the intermediate-mass black hole in Omega Centauri
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=8322
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :---- | :----------------- | :------------- |
|       | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) NGC-5139   |

## ABSTRACT

The existence and frequency of intermediate-mass black holes is an unresolved mystery with important implications for our understanding of the formation of supermassive black holes in the early universe. Omega Centauri has long been suspected to host such a black hole and the recent detection of several fast-moving stars in its center has provided new, strong evidence, placing a lower limit on the black hole mass of 8200 M. Weighing this intermediate-mass black hole more precisely requires additional observations. Due to its superior resolution and high sensitivity, JWST is perfectly suited to follow up on the faint, fast stars and to determine their orbits.
By combining existing HST and JWST data with our proposed multi-cycle observations, we will measure their astrometric accelerations, allowing the first direct mass measurements of the intermediate-mass black hole. With just a single 2.6 hr observation in Cycles 4, 5, and 6, we can improve the acceleration measurements of these stars by more than a factor of 2 over the measurement from hundreds of HST observations taken over 20 years. In addition, the proposed multi-cycle observations will detect any additional faint stars in the vicinity of the black hole, monitor potential variable accretion emission, and provide an important astrometric reference for future observations.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We request a set of identical NIRCam observations in Cycles 4, 5, and 6, targeting the photometric center of the globular cluster Omega Centauri.

The main goals of these observations are to (1) place acceleration constraints on the recently discovered fast stars in the center of Omega Centauri, and (2) detect additional faint stars in the vicinity of the black hole. Both will lead to better constraints on the mass and location of the intermediate-mass black hole candidate.

To achieve our science goals, we request observations in filters F115W and F200W. The filters are chosen as they:
a) Provide one filter (F200W) in which the NIRCam SWC detector is Nyquist sampled for the most reliable astrometric measurements, and one filter that is moderately undersampled but with higher spatial resolution (F115W), faciliating deblending of close sources.
b) Enable a sufficient color baseline to determine the cluster-membership of newly discovered stars using color-magnitude diagrams.
The Long-Wavelength-Channel Filters (F444W, F405N) are chosen to monitor potential variable accretion emission of the black hole.

We request an integration time of 419 s per exposure. This time is driven by the requirement of reaching the required sensitivity to detect the faintest main sequence stars (we reach a S/N=10 limit for magnitudes as low as m_F200W = 23.9 and m_F115W = 24.5, corresponding to stars close to the hydrogen burning limit). In addition, this exposure time will allow for high astrometric precision for the seven known fast stars. Expected measurement errors range from 0.33 - 0.45 mas (close to the astrometric noise floor of around 1% of a pixel).

We obtain 4 dithers using the FULLBOX4TIGHT pattern. We center the cluster on module B, and offset the center of the cluster X=5", Y=-30" to ensure that the cluster center with the fast stars does not fall close to a detector edge.
The observations taken with Module A will cover different areas of Omega Cen (depending on the position angle). In any case, they will overlap with existing HST data and provide significant archival value.

In addition, we added a special requirement on allowed position angles to prevent diffraction features from bright stars from falling into the region of interest.
We verified that this requirement only has minor influence on the schedulability.

We also request NIRISS parallel observations in filters matching our main observations (F115W, F200W). These come at no additional cost and will enable us to study the low-mass stars of Omega Cen at larger radii.