---
id: 8325
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Ivan Delvecchio  Co-PIs: Giorgia Peluso"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "8.8/0.0"
program_title: "Understanding the nature of the first wandering AGN candidate in a clump"
type: "GO"
---
# 8325 - Understanding the nature of the first wandering AGN candidate in a clump
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=8325
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :---- | :----------------- | :------------- |
| 1     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) C2599      |

## ABSTRACT

The growth of supermassive black holes (SMBHs) and galaxies is intertwined with the accretion history of cosmic gas reservoirs, which can fuel star formation and Active Galactic Nuclei (AGN) activity through gas filaments and/or galaxy mergers. Mergers are cosmic beacons for studying the sought-after off-center ("wandering") SMBHs, but also the formation of clumps, which are predicted to host AGN, though no such evidence has ever been reported thus far. Here we propose NIRSpec IFU observations of a unique wandering AGN candidate found in a clump, located in a merging system at z=0.93 already observed with NIRCam. The AGN position is inferred at ~0.001" precision from radio VLBA data, showing 0.38" (~3kpc) offset from the stellar mass peak (NIRCam/F277W) of the closest galaxy, but spot-on a clumpy stucture detected in the NIRCam/F115W filter and not longward. Ancillary fiber spectroscopy sets a robust zspec=0.93 but spatially-blended (0.6" radius) among the AGN-clump and the other galaxies. Using a combined G140H/F100LP and G140M/F070LP setup, we ask for only 8.8 hours (including overheads) in order to to: (i) spectroscopically confirm the redshift of the AGN-clump structure; (ii) construct velocity maps via emission line kinematics for distinguishing between ex-situ and in-situ clump formation; (iii) obtain spatially-resolved BPT lines for interpreting gas ionization; (iv) derive reddening maps from Halpha/Hbeta for investigating the puzzling dust obscuration across the system. These observations will carry an immense legacy value, opening new avenues for chasing distant wandering SMBHs and understanding their connection with galaxy mergers and clump formation.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose NIRSpec IFU observations of the first wandering AGN candidate found in a clump, placed ~3 kpc away from its host, and also at a record-breaking redshift of zspec=0.93. The spectroscopic redshift is spatially-blended between the AGN-clump and two merging galaxies, over a r=0.6" aperture. Hence our primary goal is to spectroscopically confirm the redshift of the AGN-clump structure. Moreover, we will study the gas kinematics, gas ionization and dust obscuration across the full merging system. To achieve these goals, we plan to obtain spatially-resolved maps of the main rest-frame optical lines (Halpha, [NII], Hbeta and [OIII]) with the NIRSpec/IFU. We employ two gratings/filters: G140H/F100LP for Halpha and [NII], which allows us to also spectrally resolve the lines and infer detailed velocity maps, and G140M/F070LP for [OIII] and Hbeta, in order to derive BPT diagnostics and reddening maps.

The exposure time is computed with the JWST ETC to ensure an integrated S/N>=15 for the Halpha and [NII] lines, in each IFU (0.1"x0.1") spaxel and assuming the highest extinction over the full system (A_v=2.5). This conservative strategy also leads to integrated S/N>5--7 at the AGN-clump position for the [OIII] and Hbeta lines, which is high enough for BPT diagnostics.

We choose an observing strategy with 20 groups (1500 s each), and each exposure is divided into 2 integrations. We adopt the a 4-POINT-DITHER dithering pattern, and a NRSIRS2 readout pattern. Target Acquisition is unnecessary, as existing NIRCam 0.1" pointing accuracy is totally adequate for our target.

The target system can be entirely covered with only one IFU, as it is less extended than 2" across.
Background subtraction will be performed in-source using a master sky spectrum derived from empty shutters.

The total science time for our observations is 6.5 hours, with a grand total of charged time of 8.8 hours.