---
id: 8328
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Coronagraphy"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Christian Ginski  Co-PIs: Laura Perez"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "6.2/0.0"
program_title: "Direct detection of a multi-planet system caught in formation"
type: "GO"
---
# 8328 - Direct detection of a multi-planet system caught in formation
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=8328
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                      | Observing Template          | Science Target           |
| :------------------------- | :-------------------------- | :----------------------- |
| Science observation        | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (1) UCAC4-300-090317     |
| PSF Reference Observation | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (2) HD-150178            |

---

## ABSTRACT

With thousands of extrasolar planets detected in the last decades, we find ourselves asking the question how to explain the huge diversity in planet properties and system architectures. To understand the key processes involved in planet formation we must turn to the initial conditions in the dust and gas rich disks around young stars. Near-infrared and sub-mm observations have revealed a wealth of sub-structures in disks; smoking guns pointing to the presence of embedded planets. Yet the detection of these nascent planets has proven difficult, and until now, only a single system has been identified where multi-wavelength observations could unambiguously confirm the presence of planets. One major difficulty for the direct imaging of these objects is that many of them are too faint to be detected even with the most advanced ground based facilities. The superior sensitivity of space-based observations with JWST now gives us the opportunity for a new observational window into the earliest phases of planet formation.
In this program we propose to directly detect the planets in an exceptional disk around a young low-mass star. The disk shows a rare combination of spiral and ring structures in near-infrared scattered light, which strongly indicates the presence of an embedded planet in the inner disk region (30 au). Furthermore complementary ALMA high resolution observations of the disk's gas point to a second planet in the outer disk (116 au). We show that based on existing data and dedicated simulations, both planets can be detected simultaneously with JWST/NIRCam at 4.4 micron. This presents us with the unique opportunity to directly study a multi-planet system in formation.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This is a proposal to directly detect two forming planets embedded in the disk around a young nearby star. The presence of the planets has been inferred from extensive ground-based observations with VLT/SPHERE as well as ALMA. Furthermore we demonstrate that the planets can not be detected from the ground, while they are well detectable with JWST from space.
We are using NIRCam coronagraphic imaging in the F444W filter to detect both planet simultaneously. We include reference star observations which will allow us to subtract the residual light of the bright primary star, critical to achieve the required high contrast for the planet detection. We have vetted our reference star using VLT/SPHERE to exclude a close visual binary.
With ~6h total of JWST time we have the unique opportunity to directly study a multi-planet system in formation. The JWST data will be analysed in concert with the already existing ground-based data. Furthermore a companion proposal for higher spectral and spatial resolution follow-up observations with ALMA was already accepted (priv. communication).