---
id: 8330
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "NIRISS/AMI"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Benjamin Pope"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "6.4/0.0"
program_title: "Calibration of the Brighter-Fatter Effect in AMI with a Reference Binary"
type: "GO, Calibration"
---
# 8330 - Calibration of the Brighter-Fatter Effect in AMI with a Reference Binary
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=8330
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label        | Observing Template                    | Science Target |
| :----------- | :------------------------------------ | :------------- |
| EZ Aqr - AMI | NIRISS Aperture Masking Interferometry | (3) V-EZ-Aqr   |

## ABSTRACT

High resolution, high contrast imaging with JWST is severely limited by the 'brighter-fatter effect', or charge migration, whereby bright pixels nonlinearly bleed charge into their neighbours. If this problem can be resolved, the door is open to much more extensive use of JWST for high contrast imaging. We propose using the Aperture Masking Interferometer on NIRISS as an ideal calibration system, as the non-redundant mask makes phase retrieval a well-posed problem and the PSF can be accurately characterized, so that systematic effects from the detector can be separately determined. We propose training a differentiable optical model end-to-end with a neural network to represent this nonlinear detector, but existing data on point sources and flat fields do not contain enough PSF diversity to avoid over-fitting in training the neural network. We therefore request AMI and clear-pupil NIRISS observations of the nearby, well-characterized, moderately-bright M dwarf system EZ Aqr, as a 'ruler' on the sky whose precisely-known geometry will unambiguously constrain a detector model in conjunction with existing point source and flat field observations. With an accurate, data-driven model of the brighter-fatter effect in hand, it will be possible to recover strong science outcomes in exoplanet, disk, and AGN science from archival GO and GTO AMI data; plan future observations with this instrument; and pave the way for applications to enhancing coronagraphic NIRCam and Roman observations.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose observing the nearby, near-equal binary EZ Aqr as a benchmark star for NIRISS/AMI calibration. We will observe this at 2 primary dithers by 5 subpixel dithers, in each of the available F380M, F430M, and F480M filters, with AMI and with the standard CLEARP imaging modes. We do not require a PSF reference star: this binary system itself will be used as a PSF reference.