---
id: 8358
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Guillermo Barro  Co-PIs: Pablo Perez-Gonzalez"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "19.9/0.0"
program_title: "Revealing the True Nature of Little Red Dots with Deep Continuum Observations of an IR-Bright LRD at z=3.1"
type: "GO"
---
# 8358 - Revealing the True Nature of Little Red Dots with Deep Continuum Observations of an IR-Bright LRD at z=3.1
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=8358
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label       | Observing Template                 | Science Target     |
|-------------|------------------------------------|--------------------|
| NIRSpec-IFU | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy           | (1) JADES-191056   |
| MRS         | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy| (1) JADES-191056   |

## ABSTRACT

The first 3 JWST cycles have revealed a surprising population of Little Red Dots (LRDs) at z~3-9, characterized by compact sizes, broad emission lines, and peculiar, V-shaped spectral energy distributions (SEDs) with blue UV emission and very red optical and NIR colors unlike any typical galaxy or active galactic nuclei (AGN). Are LRDs compact, dust-obscured starbursts with UV leaks, or blue, low-mass galaxies hosting obscured AGNs?. Current photometric models are strongly degenerated and follow up spectroscopy, aimed at detecting the emission lines, is typically shallow and can not reveal the true nature of the LRD continuum emission.
High resolution (R=1000) continuum spectroscopy provides a definitive answer. Our ~20h, deep NIRSpec/IFU and MIRI/MRS spectroscopic program targeting a typical LRD at z=3.1386 with bright IR emission will a) reveal the galaxy or AGN nature of the optical continuum emission, and NIR dust emission by targeting multiple stellar absorption lines, and, for the first time, a PAH emission at 3.3µm, b) show the true (emission-line free) spatial distribution of the optical and NIR continuum providing another axis to distinguish between galaxy or AGN, and c) obtain precise, black hole masses and attenuations from multiple, narrow, and broad emission lines.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This program aims to obtain deep, spatially-resolved continuum spectroscopy of a representative LRD at z = 3.1386 using a combination of NIRSpec and MIRI/MRS observations. The observations are designed to distinguish the stellar and AGN contributions to the continuum, as well as the properties of warm dust in the mid-IR.

**NIRSpec Observations:**
We will utilize the NIRSpec Integral Field Unit (IFU) with Prism, G235M, and G395M gratings. The Prism mode will provide low-resolution coverage from 0.6 to 5 µm to measure the overall shape of the continuum, focusing on the Balmer break at 4000 Å, while the higher resolution G235M and G395M modes will target key absorption and emission lines. The R=1000 is crucial for resolving absorption lines a model the broad and narrow components of the emission lines. For G235M and G395M we use the NRSIRS2 readout mode given the long required integration times and data-rate limitations. The 8 dithers are following a Medium cycling pattern that offer an optimal compromise between a large enough step size to mitigate microshutter failures, while ensuring good sub-pixel sampling and a large FoV ~2.5"x2.5" that has the full exposure time.

**MIRI/MRS Observations:**
In the mid-IR, we will use MIRI/MRS in the Medium (B) configuration. Since we know the spectroscopic redshift we verify that this configuration can target both the CO band heads, enabling us to probe stellar populations and the 3.3 µm PAH line to differentiate between ISM dust and AGN torus emission.

**Exposure Times:**
We estimate 20 hours of total observing time split across NIRSpec and MIRI. The NIRSpec Prism observations will reach a SNR~3 for continuum detection, with higher SNR achieved for line measurements by collapsing the spectra in regions free of strong emission lines. The MIRI observations are designed to achieve an SNR = 5, ensuring reliable detection of the 3.3 µm PAH feature and the continuum emission.