---
id: 8387
proposal_type: "calibration"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: ""
program_title: "CAL-MIRI-422  MRS External Flat Field"
type: ""
---
# 8387 - CAL-MIRI-422  MRS External Flat Field
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=8387
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label      | Observing Template                   | Science Target  |
| :--------- | :----------------------------------- | :-------------- |
| IC-418     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) IC-418      |
| IC-418-BKG | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) IC-418-BKG  |

## ABSTRACT

This activity observes the extended planetary nebula IC 418 to provide illumination throughout the MIRI MRS FOV in order to derive flatfields. This target is the same as the one observed during Cycle 3 (PID 6619). By re-observing the source, we will achieve greater depth, improving the signal-to-noise ratio and precision of the flatfield data. These repeated observations will also enable us to monitor for any potential variations in the instrument's response over time

Observation strategy is the same as in the previous cycle, using a dithered mosaic in order to sample the same locations on the sky with many different detector pixels (required for self-calibration).

This calibration program may change in response to system developments and the final Cycle 4 science program.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This program observes the planetary nebula IC 418 in a 3x3 mosaic with 67% overlap to measure the MRS flatfields in a single non-interruptible sequence of target and background. Each exposure consists of 40 groups per integration in FASTR1 mode, with two integrations, as determined by ETC calculations

We do not obtain simultaneous imaging as the absolute pointing of the observations is not important, and the observing setup can otherwise pose data volume challenges.

The timing of this program within Cycle 4 is unconstrained.