---
id: 8391
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Vivian U"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "7.4/0.0"
program_title: "A Triad Mystery: Deciphering a Triple Broad-Line Radio AGN System at Kpc Separation with JWST"
type: "GO"
---
# 8391 - A Triad Mystery: Deciphering a Triple Broad-Line Radio AGN System at Kpc Separation with JWST
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=8391
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label           | Observing Template          | Science Target   |
| :-------------- | :-------------------------- | :--------------- |
| J1423-CoreA     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (1) J1423-CoreA  |
| J1423-CoreB     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (2) J1423-CoreB  |
| J1423-CoreC     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (3) J1423-CoreC  |
| J1423+6358      | NIRCam Imaging              | (4) J1423+6358   |

## ABSTRACT

We propose NIRSpec IFU and NIRCam imaging to conclusively establish the triple AGN nature of a galaxy merger, theoretically predicted but never before discovered -- until now. Ancillary multi-wavelength observations (e.g., X-ray, optical, and radio) have provided promising evidence that suggest the presence of a triple broad-line and radio-emitting AGN within an ongoing merger system at z = 0.13; however, definitive confirmation requires further proof in the dust-obscured gas close to the supermassive black holes. The combination of unparalleled sensitivity and spatial resolution of JWST is vital for resolving the closely separated nuclei and detecting the broad component of H recombination line or highly ionized line emission. With NIRSpec IFU data, we will validate the triple AGN nature, estimate black hole masses, and resolve the gas kinematics that resulted from the triple merger dynamics; on the other hand, NIRCam will deliver multi-band, high-resolution images, enabling an unprecedented decomposition of the AGNs and their host galaxy in this complex merger and characterization of the resolved spectral energy distributions. JWST will deliver this final piece of the puzzle to the Triad Mystery and reveal the first triple AGN system at kiloparsec separations, which will serve as the benchmark for future searches and investigations of three-body merger systems.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This proposal requests 6.0-hour NIRSpec IFU and 3.3-hour NIRCam imaging observations on a triple-AGN. We propose a separate NIRSpec IFU pointing on each nucleus with the G235H/F170LP grating/filter to resolve the broad Pa emission line, which is the identifier of AGN activity. For core A and B, we adopt 60 groups/integration and 1 integration/exposure, which yields the total exposure time of 3560 s for the 4-point dithering and an SNR of ~20 at the wavelength of Pa emission line. For the brighter core C, we adopt 45 groups/integration and 1 integration/exposure to achieve a similar SNR with a total 2684 s exposure time. The total charged time of NIRSpec was 21769 s (~6.0 hr) but reduced to 4.1 hours after running Smart Accounting.

We also propose NIRCam imaging observations with F277W, F356W, and F444W filters in short-wavelength channel and F277W, F356W, and F444W in long-wavelength channel to perform host galaxy decomposition and SED fitting. We choose to use only module B without primary dithering as the FoV of a single detector is sufficient for the triple AGN system. We employ a standard subpixel dither with the subpixel position N = 4 to enhance the PSF sampling and mitigate bad pixels. Adopting 5 groups/integration and 1 integration/exposure, the total exposure time is 2061 s for four exposures per filter, and the SNR is above 200 for all six bands with the MEDIUM8 readout pattern, sufficient for the host galaxy decomposition. The total charged time for NIRCam is 11758 s (~3.3 hr) including the overhead time.