---
id: 8410
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging  NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Raymond Simons"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "65.3/44.7"
program_title: "A Census of Galaxy Kinematics and Outflows to z ~ 7"
type: "GO"
---
# 8410 - A Census of Galaxy Kinematics and Outflows to z ~ 7
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=8410
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label        | Observing Template              | Science Target             |
| :----------- | :------------------------------ | :------------------------- |
| Cy4_1 v1     | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (5) PRIMARY-FILLERS-MPT    |
| Cy4 2 v1     | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (5) PRIMARY-FILLERS-MPT    |
| Cy4 3 v1     | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (5) PRIMARY-FILLERS-MPT    |
| Cy4 4 v1     | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (5) PRIMARY-FILLERS-MPT    |
| Cy4 5 v1     | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (5) PRIMARY-FILLERS-MPT    |
| Cy4 6 v1     | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (5) PRIMARY-FILLERS-MPT    |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose deep spatially- and spectrally-resolved NIRSpec 1.7 - 5.1 um (R~2700) MSA spectroscopy of 275 galaxies spanning 1 <z< 10 in the CEERS NIRCam imaging footprint of the Extended Groth Strip. This program is designed around two primary science goals: (1) revealing the spatially-resolved kinematics of galaxies in the early universe (3.5 < z < 7) in large numbers (N~100) for the first time, and (2) detecting and characterizing the physical and chemical conditions of their outflowing gas. The targeted sample spans a wide range in stellar mass (8 < M*/Msun < 10) and cosmic time (~8 Gyr), and will enable a uniform demographic study of the kinematics and outflows of galaxy populations over mass and redshift.

We incorporate a unique prioritization scheme to maximize the number of galaxies that are aligned (for spatially-resolved kinematics) or perpendicular (for spatially-resolved winds) with the NIRSpec mask—increasing the scientific efficiency of this program by a factor of two. To facilitate immediate value of this program for the community, we waive the proprietary period and commit to release the high-level 1D- and 2D-spectra within 6 months of the execution of the observations.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We target six pointings with the NIRSpec multi-shutter assembly (MSA) in the Extended Growth Strip (EGS) to obtain deep spatially-resolved spectroscopy of 275 galaxies spanning a redshift range 1 < z < 10. The galaxy targets are selected from NIRCam imaging in EGS taken as a part of the CEERS Early Release Science Program. We employ the NIRSpec/G235H and G395H high-resolution gratings (R~2700) to study the kinematic and wind properties of this galaxy sample. We request ~4 hour exposure times per grating per pointing to reach the emission line depths needed to carry out the science goals. The background is estimated using a master background constructed from a number of dedicated background shutters that are positioned throughout the the field-of-view of the MSA. A single 5-shutter dither is included to mitigate detector artifacts. We request coordinated NIRCam parallels that flank the existing WFC3 + NIRCam footprint of EGS. The NIRCam imaging will use the same set of filters as the CEERS survey (F115W, F150W, F200W, F277W, F356W, F410W, F444W) to provide uniform NIRCam coverage in and around the EGS field. The new NIRCam imaging from this program will be 1.5 - 2 times deeper than that from CEERS and will expand the area of EGS with NIRCam imaging by ~40%.