---
id: 8414
proposal_type: "calibration"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: ""
program_title: "CAL-MIRI-434  LRS PSF Characterization"
type: ""
---
# 8414 - CAL-MIRI-434  LRS PSF Characterization
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=8414
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                  | Observing Template              | Science Target            |
| :--------------------- | :------------------------------ | :------------------------ |
| Bark offset            | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) Barklajdetolli-offset |
| Bark nod 1             | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) Barklajdetolli        |
| Bark nod 2             | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) Barklajdetolli        |
| Lipperta offset        | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) Lipperta-offset       |
| Lipperta slitless      | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) Lipperta              |

---

## ABSTRACT

This program aims to improve the empirical point-spread function (PSF) in the LRS by scanning a point source in sub-pixel steps in the spatial (cross-dispersion) direction in both the LRS slit and the SLITLESSPRISM subarray. In the slitless mode, the scan will be across the nominal pointing position. In the slit, the scans will cover both nod positions. These scans will improve the signal-to-noise ratio (S/N) of the empirical PSF, especially at the red end of the wavelength range, because the present targets will be asteroids instead of stars, which were used earlier in the JWST mission. Better PSFs will facilitate better algorithms for extracting spectra from two-dimensional spectral images.

This calibration program may change in response to system developments and the final Cycle 4 science program.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This program observes asteroids in the slit and in slitless mode with a sub-pixel scan to sample the point-spread function.

Observations 1-3 are a non-interruptible sequence.
Observations 4-5 are also a non-interruptible sequence.

TIMING CONTRAINTS:
Observations 1-3 (ofo Barklajdetolli) are to be executed before 1 Mar 2026.
Observations 4-5 (of Lipperta) are to be executed after 30 Sep 2025.
The next period of visibility for Lipperta begins 26 May 2026.