---
id: 8438
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Olivier Berne"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "19.9/0.0"
program_title: "The first spectrum of a temperate super-Jupiter planet"
type: "GO"
---
# 8438 - The first spectrum of a temperate super-Jupiter planet
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=8438
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label (or Obs # if label is blank) | Observing Template                | Science Target                  |
| :--------------------------------- | :-------------------------------- | :------------------------------ |
| 4                                  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy          | (1) eps-Ind-Ab                  |
| 3                                  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) eps-Ind-Ab                  |
| 8                                  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) eps-Ind-Ab-BACKGROUND       |

---

## ABSTRACT

Giant exoplanets, characterized by their substantial size and gaseous composition, play a crucial role in enhancing our understanding of planetary formation, evolution, and atmospheric chemistry beyond our Solar System. The aim of this proposal is to achieve the first medium-resolution spectroscopy of a temperate super-Jupiter planet, Epsilon Indi Ab. With a cool temperature of approximately 275 K and its proximity of 3.6 pc, Epsilon Indi Ab is paticularly bright in the mid-infrared. Its wide separation of 4.1" from its host star presents a unique opportunity for direct spectroscopy. These distinctive features make it an ideal candidate for obtaining a medium-resolution spectrum using JWST. Results of this project will deepen our understanding of chemical enrichment processes in low-temperature, older gas giants, while also providing a valuable comparison with the gas giants found in our Solar System. Additionally, preliminary indications suggest that the atmosphere may be carbon-rich, and our spectral analysis will help to test this hypothesis.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We plan to utilize the NIRSpec and MIRI-MRS instruments in IFU mode to obtain a medium-resolution spectrum of the exoplanet Epsilon Indi Ab from 2.9 to 5.3 µm in the near-infrared and 4.9 to 27.9 µm in the mid-infrared. The strategy for MIRI-MRS and NIRSpec observations uses 4-point dithers. There are possible conflicts between favoured position angles to limit the contamination by the host star in long channels of MIRI and MAZ. The observing strategy may be optimized unpon request from the STScI in phase 2.

We set our goal in terms of signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) to a value of 100 at the peak for NIRSpec and 50 for MIRI, to clearly detect key molecular features within a reasonable time. To estimate this SNR, we rely on the Exposure Time Calculator (ETC) and models, which reproduce the MIRI coronagraphy fluxes.

With 2 integrations and 58 groups with SLOWR1 readout for MIRI and 1 integration and 50 groups with the NRSIRS2RAPID readout pattern for NIRSpec, our goal in terms of peak SNR is reached. The use of SLOWR1 is required to limit data rate. To ensure the maximum quality of the data and given the low flux of the source, we also include a dedicated background observation for MIRI, following the successful strategy adopted by the ERS program on direct spectroscopy of exoplanets (ERS 1386).