---
id: 8445
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/FS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Sasha Cryan"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "45.9/0.0"
program_title: "Complex Cyanides as Tracers for Unlocking the Chemical History of Trans-Neptunian Objects"
type: "GO"
---
# 8445 - Complex Cyanides as Tracers for Unlocking the Chemical History of Trans-Neptunian Objects
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=8445
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label      | Observing Template             | Science Target         |
| :--------- | :----------------------------- | :--------------------- |
| 1999OX3    | NIRSpec Fixed Silt Spectroscopy | (3) 1999OX3            |
| 1999RZ253  | NIRSpec Fixed Silt Spectroscopy | (4) 1999RZ253          |
| 2003GH55   | NIRSpec Fixed Silt Spectroscopy | (9) 2003GH55           |
| 2005EF298  | NIRSpec Fixed Silt Spectroscopy | (12) 2005EF298         |
| 2010VZ98   | NIRSpec Fixed Silt Spectroscopy | (16) 2010VZ98          |
| 2008FC76   | NIRSpec Fixed Silt Spectroscopy | (17) 2008FC76          |
| 1999TC36   | NIRSpec Fixed Silt Spectroscopy | (18) 1999TC36          |

---

## ABSTRACT

Cyanides—compounds that contain one or more CN functional groups—have a ubiquitous presence in astrophysical environments. The CN functional group can be incorporated into a diverse range of molecular structures, from simpler cyanides like HCN to larger, more complex polymeric structures. These compounds form and evolve through thermal, photochemical, and irradiation-driven chemical pathways. As such, cyanides are key tracers of nitrogen chemistry in a wide range of astrophysical environments.

While CN-bearing species have been detected in comets, the moons of giant planets, and in micrometeorites, their presence on trans-Neptunian objects (TNOs) is poorly understood. This proposal aims to firmly detect complex cyanides TNOs and investigate their origin and evolution to shed light on the molecular diversity of the primordial Solar System. By linking the molecular composition of TNOs to that of other icy bodies like comets and moons, and interstellar structures such as molecular clouds, our study will bridge crucial gaps in understanding nitrogen chemistry across different environments.

We request observations of six medium-sized TNOs and one Centaur using the NIRSpec Fixed Slit (FS) mode to reach unprecedented high-SNR that only this observing mode of the JWST can reach. These observations will enable the robust detection of complex cyanides and associated molecules like N-H-bearing compounds and HCN, providing insights into the processes shaping N-bearing species in the Solar System. Ultimately, this work will enhance our understanding of the role of nitrogen in the emergence of biochemically relevant molecules, contributing to the broader field of astrobiology.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to observe seven outer Solar System objects using NIRSpec FS with the S200A1 slit and the Prism/CLEAR grating/filter pair to acquire low-resolving power spectra in the range 0.6-5.3micron. All targets, apart from 2008 FC76, were already observed in Cycle 1 (programs 2418) with NIRSpec IFU + Prism/CLEAR configuration. 2008 FC76 was observed as part of the GTO-KBOs project in medium resolution granting lower signal-to-noise ratio than the one aiming here. The choice of the FS + S200A1 + Prism/CLEAR configuration and the increase of the exposure time allow us to improve by a factor of ~3-4 the SNR around 4.5 µm, reaching a value of at least 20 for each target.
We have chosen the readout mode, the number of groups, the number of integrations, and the number of dither positions to maximize the SNR and minimized overheads, while avoiding saturation, integrations longer than 1500s, and data volume excess. For each target observed with PRISM in previous cycles, the exposure time selected is more than 4 times longer than the exposure time of previous NIRSpec IFU + Prism/CLEAR observations.
All targets have rate motion far below the non-sidereal tracking limit of 0.075''/sec and have observability in cycle-4 that avoids the MAZ and the galactic plane.