---
id: 8507
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Coronagraphy"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Tiffany Meshkat"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "7.3/0.0"
program_title: "Confirming sub-Jupiter mass planets at 20 au around a nearby star"
type: "GO"
---
# 8507 - Confirming sub-Jupiter mass planets at 20 au around a nearby star
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=8507
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                      | Observing Template          | Science Target |
| :------------------------- | :-------------------------- | :------------- |
| Altair - Roll 1            | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging| (1) ALTAIR     |
| Altair - Roll 2            | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging| (1) ALTAIR     |
| Vega - Altair Reference star | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging| (2) VEGA       |

## ABSTRACT

Altair is one of our nearest neighbors (5.13 pc) and its age has recently been revised to a much lower 88 Myr. It is now among the youngest nearby stars, making it an ideal candidate for exoplanet direct imaging searches with JWST. Cycle-3 observations of Altair have revealed several exciting candidate companions. The closest candidate companion to Altair is at a projected separation of about 4”, with a contrast of 17.4 mag. Assuming an age of 88 Myr, this candidate corresponds to a mass of 0.5 Jupiter masses at a separation of 20 au. We propose to obtain follow-up images of Altair with NIRCam to confirm the planetary nature of the candidate companions to the North of the star. Due to the very high proper motion of Altair, we will be able to confirm if any of the candidate companions are co-moving with Altair even at the start of the Cycle-4 window. If confirmed, this would be the lowest mass planet ever imaged around a star and would be the target of significant follow-up for characterization.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The proposed follow-up images of Altair will make simultaneous long and short wavelength filter observations using the M430R mask in subarray mode. Following the observations of cycle-3, this program will include F444W and simultaneously F200W. The F200W filter will assist in rejection of background objects. Unlike cycle-3, we will schedule the observations to occur approximately 6 months or 18 months after the previous data were obtained, in order to observe the North side of Altair. We will use the same integration times as Cycle-3.
The star will be observed at two roll angles to enable Angular Differential Imaging (ADI) and a reference star (Vega) will be observed for Reference Differential Imaging (RDI), with 5 dithers to introduce PSF diversity.
Due to the brightness of these stars, target acquisition requires RAPID integrations, even after dimming with a neutral density filter. The shortest integration time yields an SNR greater than 300.
All science observations use the F430R NIRCam coronagraphic mask, with the F200W and F444W filters. For these bright stars, the RAPID readout mode is employed, allowing up to 10 groups of observations before saturation occurs. The total exposure time for the reference star, when the 5 dithers are combined, matches the exposure time for each roll angle of the primary target. We have selected the dates to observe at a time when the Northern side of Altair is visible.