---
id: 8512
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Daichi Kashino"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "25.1/0.0"
program_title: "Dissecting ?Coalescence of Primeval Galaxies"
type: "GO"
---
# 8512 - Dissecting ?Coalescence of Primeval Galaxies
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=8512
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label             | Observing Template          | Science Target           |
| :---------------- | :-------------------------- | :----------------------- |
| J0148-14610       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (1) J0148-14610          |
| J0148-10916AB     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (4) Group J0148-10916AB  |
| J0148-18151       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (5) J0148-18151          |
| J0148-14360       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (6) J0148-14360          |
| J1148-04376       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (7) J1148-04376          |
| J1148-13485       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (8) J1148-13485          |
| J0100-09273       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (12) Group J0100-09273AB |
| J0100-12754       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy    | (11) J0100-12754         |

---

## ABSTRACT

How does the formation of primeval galaxies proceed in their earliest evolutionary stages? To answer this question, we propose NIRSpec IFU observations of eight selected galaxies at z~6 which are composed of many distinct clumps. These galaxies have been carefully selected from >900 spectroscopically confirmed [OIII]5008 emission-line galaxies constructed by the JWST GTO EIGER program, one of the most sensitive NIRCam WFSS campaigns. Each of these galaxies has robust spectroscopic redshift confirmation and deep multiband NIRCam imaging (F115W, F200W, and F356W), making them an ideal sample for our science goals.
Utilizing the G395H/F290LP disperser-filter combination, we aim to obtain spatially-resolved maps of rest-frame optical emission lines, especially Hbeta, [OIII]4960,5008, Halpha, and [NII]. A central goal is to investigate the peculiar velocity of each clump and determine the dynamical properties of these systems. Specifically, we will verify whether these clumps are gravitationally bound, i.e., whether they are in the process of accreting into a single object. Further, we will map star formation activity using the Halpha emission line, verify the presence of outflows from emission-line profiles, and assess the recently reported nitrogen enhancement using the [NII] emission line as one of our pivotal tasks. These analyses will provide new insights into the very early stages of galaxy formation and evolution.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to obtain NIRSpec IFU observations for eight galaxies, each composed of many clumps, selected from the JWST GTO EIGER program. Our objective is to obtain spatially-resolved maps of rest-frame optical strong emission lines, namely Hbeta, [OIII], Halpha, and [NII], using the G395H/F290LP disperser-filter combination.
Based on estimates from the ETC, we will execute exposures with the NRSIRS2RAPID readout pattern with N_group=99, N_integration=1, and a 4-Point dither pattern. The total integration time is 5835 seconds per target.
For two targets that extend beyond 3", we will employ two offset pointings grouped together.