---
id: 8520
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Anthony Taylor"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "10.8/0.0"
program_title: "Balmer Breaks in Little Red Dots: Stellar Populations or Dense Neutral Gas?"
type: "GO"
---
# 8520 - Balmer Breaks in Little Red Dots: Stellar Populations or Dense Neutral Gas?
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=8520
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :---- | :----------------------------- | :---------------- |
| 55604 | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (1) CEERS MSA |
| 49140 | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (1) CEERS MSA |
| 42046 | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (1) CEERS MSA |

---

## ABSTRACT

JWST's discovery of a population of red compact galaxies at redshifts z>3 has challenged our understanding of galaxy and AGN evolution in the early universe. This population, referred to as Little Red Dots (LRDs), consists of objects with blue rest-frame-UV slopes and red rest-frame-optical slopes, resulting in a unique spectral-energy-distribution (SED). A large fraction (~80%) of the LRDs show broad Balmer lines, indicating that they may host broad-line AGN that dominate their SEDs. However, some of these LRDs also show strong Balmer breaks, which instead suggest that post-starburst stellar populations dominate their SEDs. However, a recent theory has proposed that these Balmer breaks may instead be produced by clumpy dense gas near the AGN without the need for an evolved stellar population. We propose to test this theory directly by obtaining deep (4-8 hour) NIRSpec fixed slit medium resolution spectra of the Balmer breaks of three bright LRDs (and MSA spectra of other field targets to maximize the legacy value of this program). We will robustly detect the continuum emission red of the Balmer break and search for Balmer and Ca II H and K absorption features. If Ca II lines are clearly detected, the Balmer breaks in these objects result from post-starburst stellar populations. However, if the Ca II lines are missing and the Balmer absorption lines show a velocity offset relative to strong metal emission features, the Balmer breaks result from an outflow of dense, neutral gas near the AGN. Through these observations, this program will distinguish between these competing models and directly determine the physical origins of Balmer breaks in AGN-hosting LRDs.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will obtain deep NIRSpec Fixed-Slit and MSA medium resolution grating spectra of three bright, intersting Little Red Dots (LRDs) in the EGS field (RUBIES-EGS-42046, RUBIES-EGS-49140, and RUBIES-EGS-55604). We will use these observations to resolve the continuum emission of these objects near the Ca II H and K absorption lines to determine the physical origins of the Balmer breaks exhibited by these objects. To maximize the legacy value of these observations, we will also use the MSA to observe nearby ancillary targets.
We target a S/N of 7 per pixel at rest-frame 4000A in our primary targets so that we can robustly detect the Ca II H and K absorption lines. We can achieve this S/N with eight hour exposures for targets 42046 (using G235M/F170LP) and 49140 (using G395M/F290LP) and a four hour exposure for target 55604 (using G395M/F290LP). For the eight hour observations, we will use the standard fixed-slit+MSA three shutter nod (three exposures) with 16 groups of the NRSIRS2 readout mode and eight integrations per nod. For the four hour observation, we will use the same configuration with four integrations per nod.