---
id: 8525
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging  NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Alec Hirschauer"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "19.2/0.0"
program_title: "Evolutionary Snapshots of Massive Star Formation in NGC 6822"
type: "GO"
---
# 8525 - Evolutionary Snapshots of Massive Star Formation in NGC 6822
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=8525
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label             | Observing Template | Science Target           |
| :---------------- | :----------------- | :----------------------- |
| Hubble V MIRI     | MIRI Imaging       | (1) NGC-6822-HUBBLE-V    |
| Hubble X MIRI     | MIRI Imaging       | (2) NGC-6822-HUBBLE-X    |
| Hubble IV MIRI    | MIRI Imaging       | (3) NGC-6822-HUBBLE-IV   |
| Hubble I/III MIRI | MIRI Imaging       | (4) NGC-6822-HUBBLE-I-III |
| Hubble V NIRCam   | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) NGC-6822-HUBBLE-V    |
| Hubble X NIRCam   | NIRCam Imaging     | (2) NGC-6822-HUBBLE-X    |
| Hubble I/III NIRCam | NIRCam Imaging     | (4) NGC-6822-HUBBLE-I-III |
| Hubble IV NIRCam  | NIRCam Imaging     | (3) NGC-6822-HUBBLE-IV   |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose to image the massive Hubble star-forming (SF) regions (Hubble I/III, Hubble IV, Hubble V, and Hubble X) in the nearby dwarf irregular galaxy NGC 6822. With high-quality photometric data utilizing NIRCam and MIRI in near- and mid-IR, we will separate, identify, and categorize the young embedded and dusty evolved stars with color-magnitude diagram (CMD) and spectral energy distribution (SED) analyses. This will allow for the characterization of star formation and dust evolution in metal-poor environments analogous to conditions at higher redshift. We will detect massive young stellar objects (YSOs) emerging from obscuration in these HII regions, providing insight into the formation of massive stars at low metallicities. In addition, we will conduct a census of asymptotic giant branch (AGB) stars, and differentiate their chemistries in effort to quantify their dust producing capabilities and characteristics. At this early epoch, however, the dust-producing mechanisms of slowly evolving AGB star progenitors are not well understood. With high-quality observational data of four massive SF regions at different stages in their evolution inhabiting the same metal-poor galaxy, combined with existing JWST observations of equivalent quality made of the massive, young, embedded SF region Spitzer I, we will tremendously improve our understanding of massive star formation and the life cycle of dust.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We are imaging four metal-poor star-forming (SF) regions (Hubble I/III, Hubble IV, Hubble V, and Hubble X) with four NIRCam filters (F115W, F200W, F356W, and F444W) and four MIRI filters (F770W, F1000W, F1500W, and F2100W). The MIRI observations will be performed with FULL subarrays and four-point dithers, while the NIRCam observations will be performed with FULL subarrays but only Module B. Exposure times were computed with the JWST Exposure Time Calculator (ETC) to reach an estimated signal-to-noise ratio (S/N) for sources relevant to the wavelength range encompased within each filter of roughly 30 (though S/N values are generally much higher), while following recommended best practices to maximize S/N, minimize integration time on target, and avoid background saturation. Our observations aim to conduct a census of massive young stellar objects (YSOs) and asymptotic giant branch (AGB) stars, and characterize their properties with spectral energy distribution (SED) model fitting in effort to better understand star formation and dust production mechanics, as well as massive star cluster evolution, in an extragalactic system which mimics the metal-poor nature of early-universe SF galaxies.