---
id: 8544
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "MIRI/LRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Jakob Helton"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "62.6/0.0"
program_title: "Rest-Frame Optical Nebular Emission Lines at Cosmic Dawn: MIRI/LRS Follow-Up for JADES-GS-z14-0"
type: "GO"
---
# 8544 - Rest-Frame Optical Nebular Emission Lines at Cosmic Dawn: MIRI/LRS Follow-Up for JADES-GS-z14-0
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=8544
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                     | Observing Template               | Science Target   |
| :------------------------ | :------------------------------- | :--------------- |
| MIRI/LRS Observation s #1 | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) JADES-GS-z14-0 |
| MIRI/LRS Observation s #2 | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) JADES-GS-z14-0 |
| MIRI/LRS Observation s #3 | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) JADES-GS-z14-0 |

---

## ABSTRACT

The recent spectroscopic confirmation of JADES-GS-z14-0 at z = 14.179 (Carniani et al. 2024, Carniani et al. 2025, Schouws et al. 2025) challenges our understanding of the early Universe. This galaxy is remarkably luminous (M_UV = -20.81) and reddened (beta_UV = -2.20). It is clearly spatially resolved in the rest-frame ultraviolet (R_UV = 260 parsecs) and therefore dominated by stellar light at those wavelengths. Most notably, it has been detected at 7.7 microns with JWST/MIRI, and the measured flux density in MIRI/F770W (74.4 nJy, S/N = 13) is in excess above the measured flux density with JWST/NIRCam (Helton et al. 2025). At this redshift, less than 300 million years after the Big Bang, the measured flux excess is likely caused by nebular emission from hydrogen and ionized oxygen. We propose for ultra-deep spectroscopic follow-up observations with the MIRI/LRS to cover the brightest rest-frame optical nebular emission lines ([OII]3727+3729, Hbeta, [OIII]4959+5007, and Halpha) in addition to the stellar continuum. These observations will unveil important insights into this extreme galaxy: (1) gas-phase metallicity, electron density, and ionization parameter; (2) recent star-formation rate, ionizing photon production efficiency, and diffuse dust attenuation; and (3) properties of the stellar populations, including stellar mass, stellar age, and shape of the star-formation history. JADES-GS-z14-0 represents the current archetype of early galaxy formation, and the proposed observations represent a rare opportunity to study the formation of some of the first stars and heavy elements in the Universe.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose for ultra-deep spectroscopic follow-up observations of JADES-GS-z14-0 at z = 14.179 with the MIRI/LRS to cover the brightest rest-optical nebular emission lines ([OII]3727+3729, Hbeta, [OIII]4959+5007, and Halpha) in addition to the rest-optical continuum. We are requesting 62.8 hours of charged time including overheads (50.7 hours of science time). The proposed observations are a substantial investment for one galaxy, but we note that this proposal is building on nearly ten days of mission time spent observing JADES-GS-z14-0 with JWST, and that this galaxy is currently the ideal test bed for the study of early galaxy formation. Considering the extreme properties of JADES-GS-z14-0, opportunities like this one are expected to be rare. Furthermore, the existing photometric detection with JWST/MIRI (Helton et al. 2025) and spectroscopic detection with ALMA (Carniani et al. 2025, Schouws et al. 2024) provide fairly robust constraints on the expected rest-frame optical nebular emission line fluxes.

The proposed observations with the MIRI/LRS are for slit spectroscopy and adopt the FASTR1 readout pattern with 119 groups per integration, 23 integrations per exposure, 4 exposures per dither, 2 dithers along slit nod per visit, and 3 visits in total. We choose to have multiple visits to provide repeated dithering between both of the slit locations. For each visit, direct images are taken with the MIRI/F560W filter for target acquisition and verification. Verification is highly recommended for slit spectroscopy with the MIRI/LRS. Target acquisition would be performed on a bright, nearby star (m = 21 AB mag in MIRI/F560W) that is roughly 40 arcseconds to the north east. The proposed observations for target acquisition adopt the FASTGRPAVG readout pattern with 10 groups per integration and 1 integration per exposure, while the proposed observations for verification adopt the FASTR1 readout pattern with 119 groups per integration and 1 integration per exposure.