---
id: 8559
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Kelcey Davis  Co-PIs: Rebecca Larson"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "62.8/0.0"
program_title: "SPAM: Star-formation from Photometry through the Addition of Medium-bands"
type: "GO"
---
# 8559 - SPAM: Star-formation from Photometry through the Addition of Medium-bands
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=8559
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label      | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :--------- | :----------------- | :------------- |
| Pointing1  | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) POINTING1  |
| Pointing2  | NIRCam Imaging     | (2) POINTING2  |
| Pointing3  | NIRCam Imaging     | (3) POINTING3  |
| Pointing4  | NIRCam Imaging     | (4) POINTING4  |
| Pointing5  | NIRCam Imaging     | (5) POINTING5  |
| Pointing6  | NIRCam Imaging     | (6) POINTING6  |
| Pointing7  | NIRCam Imaging     | (7) POINTING7  |
| Pointing8  | NIRCam Imaging     | (8) POINTING8  |
| Pointing9  | NIRCam Imaging     | (9) POINTING9  |
| Pointing10 | NIRCam Imaging     | (10) POINTING10|

## ABSTRACT

We propose SPAM (Star-formation from Photometry through the Addition of Medium-bands), a NIRCam imaging program to add ten new filters – nine medium band (MB) filters and one wide band (WB) filter (F070W, F140M, F162M F182M, F210M, F300M, F335M, F360M, F430M, and F480M) – to the CEERS Early-Release Science (ERS #1345) legacy dataset. SPAM is an efficient medium program which will have a large impact as it can simultaneously 1) measure the extent and occupation of two overdensities that may be powering the earliest-known reionized bubbles at z=7.7 and 8.7 by tracing strong [OIII] emission improving the photometric-redshift precision by 5-10X over CEERS alone, 2) provide necessary filters to break photometric redshift degeneracies and reliably map galaxy evolution at z>2, and 3) constrain star-formation histories of massive galaxies at z>4 by observing five short-wavelength MBs bracketing the Balmer break. Here, we propose 62.9 hours of non-proprietary NIRCam imaging adding to the public CEERS legacy data and enabling an even broader range of science for the entire community.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Here, we describe the details behind our observations. We refer the reader to the Technical Description of the PDF attachment for the motivation behind our specific observing choices, including the targeted field, the instrument and filter choice, the number of pointings, and depths. This proposal asks for a mosaic of 10 NIRCam imaging pointings covering the majority (~100 sq arcmin) of the Extended Groth Strip HST legacy field to match those of the CEERS Survey (ERS #1345). We thus require Position Angles of 131 or 113 to cover the same locations as the CEERS Survey.

We observe with 10 NIRCam filters in 10 NIRCam pointings, pairing these short and long-wavelength filters: F070W+F430M, F140M+F480M, F162M+F360M, F182M+F300M, F210M+F335M. We reach our desired sensitivity in 3349.87 sec of total integration time (1 exposure of 8 groups each in MEDIUM8 readout mode) for the F480M, F430M, and F360M (+F070W, F140M, and F162M) filters, 2920.401 sec of total integration time (1 exposure of 7 groups each in MEDIUM8 readout mode) for the F335M (+F210M) filters, and 2490.931 sec of total integration time (1 exposure of 6 groups each in MEDIUM8 readout mode) for the F300M (+F182M) filters to allow efficient cosmic ray rejection. We chose the INTRAMODULEBOX with four dithers to cover the chip gaps and provide uniform depth across the field of view.

We have considered the data volume rate for our planned observations and have verified that APT does not give any errors or warnings.