---
id: 8564
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Rupali Chandar"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "29.0/0.0"
program_title: "Staring at the Void: Supernova-Driven Star Formation and Supression in the Largest Local Superbubble"
type: "GO"
---
# 8564 - Staring at the Void: Supernova-Driven Star Formation and Supression in the Largest Local Superbubble
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=8564
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label      | Observing Template                  | Science Target                   |
|------------|-------------------------------------|----------------------------------|
| A NIRSpec  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy            | (100) Group Phantom_Void_Rim-A   |
| A MIRI IFU | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (100) Group Phantom_Void_Rim-A   |
| B NIRSpec  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy            | (101) Group Phantom_Void_Rim-B   |
| B MIRI IFU | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (101) Group Phantom_Void_Rim-B   |
| C NIRSpec  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy            | (102) Group Phantom_Void_Rim-C   |
| C MIRI IFU | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (102) Group Phantom_Void_Rim-C   |

---

## ABSTRACT

The Phantom Void is one of the most visually striking features in JWST images of nearby spiral galaxies. It is a uniquely large (more than 1 kpc in diameter), circular hole in the ISM of the nearby galaxy NGC 628 (the Phantom Galaxy), created by the extreme feedback from thousands of supernovae. Gas and dust have been concentrated on the perimeter of the Phantom Void, leading to new generations of stars forming along its rim. And yet, much of this gas is not currently forming stars, highlighting the contrasting role that feedback plays, and the fine balance between processes that concentrate gas and those that disperse it. We propose 3-27 micron NIRSPEC and MIRI IFU spectroscopy along 1/4 the perimeter of the Phantom Void to understand the role that supernovae-driven bubbles play on the gas-stars-feedback cycle in star-forming galaxies. When combined with ultra high resolution CO (2-1) maps of the Void, we will create temporal and spatial maps of star formation, warm molecular gas, PAH strengths and ratios, and identify regions where the gas has been shocked vs. radiatively heated. We will use the observations to address key questions: How does supernova feedback alter conditions for star formation in the cold ISM? Why is star formation not occurring simultaneously along the entire Void perimeter? How do supernova-driven shocks affect the survival and state of PAH grains?

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We target 6 slightly overlapping fields plus a background right in the center of the Void (which is a massive hole in the ISM) around the rim of the Phantom Void (in the nearby spiral galaxy NGC 628) with NIRSpec and MIRI IFU continuous spectrscopy from 3-28 microns.

NIRSpec IFU observations are linked in three separate uninterruptible groups (with pointings 21+2, 3+4+5, 6+'background' together) to prevent data overflow, since we require fairly long exposures to measure faint H2 lines in faint gas. The observations are taken in a 4 point dither pattern with the G395M/F290LP grating, and there are 15 groups with 3 integrations using the NRSIR2RAPID mode. Leakcals are associated with each pointing and have the same dither pattern and exposure time as the main pointing. We are using a pointing at the center of the void itself as a background field, which saves slew time and also gives a very local measurement.

MIRI MRS IFU observations follow NIRSpec and are similarly divided into 3 linked uninterruptable sequences using a 4-point dither pattern, with a leakcal associated with each pointing. These obtain 20 group FASTR1 observations

We also obtain simultaneous MIRI imaging, with 20 group FASTR1 observations in F560W, F1280W, and F1500W. We do not impose a spacecraft roll angle requirement.