---
id: 8582
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Allison Man  Co-PIs: Paola Andreani"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "12.9/0.0"
program_title: "Towards a complete NIR/MIR view of the circumgalactic medium of a brightest cluster galaxy at z=0.4"
type: "GO"
---
# 8582 - Towards a complete NIR/MIR view of the circumgalactic medium of a brightest cluster galaxy at z=0.4
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=8582
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label              | Observing Template                  | Science Target                  |
| :----------------- | :---------------------------------- | :------------------------------ |
| MRS_BCG_tail_SHORT_LONG | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) MACS1931.8-2635-BCG-TAIL    |
| MRS_Sky_SHORT_LONG | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) DEDICATED-SKY               |
| NIRSpec_BCG_tail   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy            | (1) MACS1931.8-2635-BCG-TAIL    |
| NIRSpec_Sky        | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy            | (2) DEDICATED-SKY               |

## ABSTRACT

Brightest cluster galaxies (BCGs) of cool-core clusters are uniquely suited for AGN feedback studies. Cycle 2 JWST observations toward one such cool-core BCG have revealed intriguing results: the circumgalactic medium (CGM) has warmer H2 than in the BCG, suggestive of jet-induced shock heating. Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon (PAH) 11.3um emission appears in clumps embedded in the CGM, hinting at an origin in clumpy, dense clouds to survive the destructive environment.

We request NIRSpec+MIRI/MRS IFU observations to complement the Cycle 2 data of this source. While the detections obtained with only 1 of the 3 MRS gratings are promising, full MRS spectral coverage is needed to properly model the continuum and cover the missing spectra features (H2 S(3), S(7), PAH 6.3, 7.7, 12.6um) to model the gas temperature, excitation and ionization conditions. NIRSpec will detect the PAH 3.3um band and ro-vibrational H2 lines. The full dataset will allow us to, for the first time, obtain a spatially resolved, contiguous NIRSpec+MRS spectrum over 2-28 micron of a BCG and its surrounding cold CGM, covering ~6000 sq kpc. The proposed JWST data will add to a rich ancillary dataset (ALMA, VLT/MUSE, VLA, MeerKAT, Chandra), enabling us to map out the baryon cycle (multiphase gas inflows and outflows), and address fundamental questions on the triggering and quenching of star formation in such environments. We will assess the role of shocks and turbulence in heating the CGM, and understand how molecular gas and PAH survive in harsh conditions in a cluster core. The program will set a new benchmark for the use of PAH as star formation rate indicators, and H2 lines as molecular gas tracers.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The requested observations are designed to complement the archival Cycle 2 program (3629) obtained with the MRS MEDIUM sub-band

NIRSpec
- G395H/F290LP
- 3x3 mosaic

MIRI/MRS observations towards a spatially extended target
- request is for SHORT and LONG sub-bands, at matching depth to archival observations for MEDIUM sub-band
- 3x2 mosaic
- dedicated sky observation
- simultaneous MIRI imaging (with filters F560W and F100W)
- Note that the simultaneous MIRI imaging over the dedicated sky background will cover the science targets. This is accomplished by restricting the PA range.

Refer to Technical Justification and ETC notebooks for more details