---
id: 8587
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging  NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Thushara Pillai  Co-PIs: Robert Gutermuth, Tracy Huard, Jens Kauffmann, Shuo Kong, and others*"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "24.0/0.0"
program_title: "Star Formation in a High-Mass IRDC: Suppressed or Veiled?"
type: "GO"
---
# 8587 - Star Formation in a High-Mass IRDC: Suppressed or Veiled?
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=8587
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                  | Observing Template | Science Target           |
| :--------------------- | :----------------- | :----------------------- |
| NIRCam G28             | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) G28.333+0.063-CENTER |
| MIRI G28               | MIRI Imaging       | (1) G28.333+0.063-CENTER |
| NIRCam G28 - Reference | NIRCam Imaging     | (2) G28.333+0.063-REFERENCE |
| MIRI G28 - Reference   | MIRI Imaging       | (2) G28.333+0.063-REFERENCE |

## ABSTRACT

Most star formation in the universe takes place in high-mass clusters. Their formation and evolution are thus fundamental to understanding how galaxies evolve. High-mass infrared dark clouds (IRDCs), extremely massive and dense filaments at the heart of some giant molecular clouds, are progenitors of high-mass clusters. Large distances and enormous extinction in the infrared have hindered any meaningful census of young stellar objects (YSOs) in IRDCs using infrared techniques, which provide the only means to directly sense the young stars. Here, we propose to use JWST to provide a complete characterization of YSOs down to 0.1 Lsun in one of the most well-studied IRDCs: G28.34+0.06, the “Dragon”. This JWST program enables several experiments crucial for our understanding of high-mass cluster formation (HMCF) and extragalactic star formation relations. It will provide the first direct census of YSOs and star formation rate in a high-mass IRDC. We can study the emergence and evolution of stellar populations in a cloud that has not yet been substantially perturbed by star formation, and is thus representative of the initial conditions. Since all known evolutionary phases of HMCF are embedded in the Dragon, we can place stringent constraints on the main models of HMCF. Further, star formation (SF) rate predictions from different model SF relations differ by an order of magnitude. This permits using the Dragon to decisively differentiate between different star formation relations, thus critically advancing our understanding of the processes governing galactic and extragalactic star formation.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Relatively straightforward mosaicing observations with NIRCam and MIRI, with dithers and other parameters optimized to deliver a relatively homogeneous coverage with limited overheads. The observations also target a separate "control field" that is used to characterize the populations of foreground and background stars onto which our targets are imposed.