---
id: 8597
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS  NIRISS/SOSS  NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Adina Feinstein  Co-PIs: Jennifer Bergner"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "45.9/0.0"
program_title: "Measuring the Bulk Properties of a 3 Myr Transiting Exoplanet and its Original Protoplanetary Disk"
type: "GO"
---
# 8597 - Measuring the Bulk Properties of a 3 Myr Transiting Exoplanet and its Original Protoplanetary Disk
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=8597
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label             | Observing Template                       | Science Target      |
| :---------------- | :--------------------------------------- | :------------------ |
| planet niriss     | NIRISS Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy | (1) IRAS-04125+2902 |
| planet_nirspec    | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series        | (1) IRAS-04125+2902 |
| disk_miri         | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy      | (1) IRAS-04125+2902 |

## ABSTRACT

The usage of exoplanetary atmospheric abundances as chemical tracers of their disk formation and migration is complicated by the fact that planets are typically discovered after their progenitor disk has dissipated. For example, the atmospheric carbon-to-oxygen (C/O) ratio of an exoplanet is typically used to infer its initial formation location However, this method of identification of formation location is inherently not self-consistent without a clear understanding of (i) the volatile inventory of the original protoplanetary disk and (ii) atmospheric compositional evolution. The gold standard for testing where, when, and how a planet forms would be to measure its volatile composition in conjunction with that of its parent disk. The recently discovered target of this proposal presents the first opportunity to perform such an experiment.

We propose to fully characterize the IRAS 04125+2902 system with JWST and ALMA. IRAS 04125+2902 is a 3 Myr 0.7 MSun pre-main sequence star in the Taurus Molecular Cloud which hosts a transiting 0.96 RJup planet. IRAS 04125+2902 also hosts a transitional disk that is misaligned with the planetary orbital plane. With this small program, we will use (i) NIRISS/SOSS and NIRSpec/G395M to measure the bulk C/O and metallicity of IRAS 04125+2902 b's atmosphere, (ii) MIRI/MRS to determine the C/O and water-enrichment in the the inner disk, and (iii) ALMA to determine the C/O/N/H ratios in the outer disk.

Our joint interdisciplinary program will measure the formation location and migration history of an exoplanet for first time. The results of this study will make IRAS 04125+2902 the gold standard for understanding planet formation.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We are requesting transit observations of IRAS 04125+2902 b with NIRISS/SOSS and NIRSpec/G395M. The planet transits every 8.834978 days. We request our NIRISS/SOSS and NIRSpec/G395M observations be taken during consecutive transit. This will help us obtain observations within the same XUV environment and ensure robust atmospheric observations.