---
id: 8607
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Jared Siegel  Co-PIs: David Setton"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "19.6/0.0"
program_title: "Studying cosmic noon at 200 parsec scales: resolved spectroscopy of a magnified dusty quiescent galaxy"
type: "GO"
---
# 8607 - Studying cosmic noon at 200 parsec scales: resolved spectroscopy of a magnified dusty quiescent galaxy
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=8607
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :---- | :----------------- | :------------- |
|       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) 33295      |

## ABSTRACT

We propose medium resolution NIRSpec IFU spectroscopy of A2744-33295, a gravitationally lensed galaxy at z=2.4. NIRCam photometry suggests A2744-33295 is a member of the growing population of reddened quiescent galaxies at cosmic noon. However, the nature of these galaxies, i.e., whether they are truly quenched, is shrouded by the dust-age degeneracy. With mu=18, this source is the only known dusty galaxy at cosmic noon where spatially resolved spectroscopy is feasible on scales of hundreds of parsecs. Using spatially resolved star formation, reddening, and kinematics measurements, we will determine whether the claimed dust reddening is due to embedded star formation or is instead a sign that dust lingers in the wake of quenching and is then removed by some other channel (e.g., outflows). With A2744-33295, we will study cosmic noon at five times higher resolution than is typically achieved for local galaxies (e.g., 1 kpc for MaNGA).

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This program has 1 target: A2744-33295, a claimed dusty quiescent galaxy at z=2.4.

We will target A2744-33295 for medium resolution NIRSpec IFU spectroscopy: 11 hours with G235M/F170LP and 3 hours with G395M/F290LP. Our science goals require spatially resolved spectra with continuum S/N > 5. We determined the necessary exposure times by dividing the galaxy into Voronoi bins based on the NIRCam F200W imaging and modeling each bin's SED with Prospector. For each bin, we used the ETC to calculate the exposure times necessary to reach our target S/N.

No background subtraction is needed; we will estimate the background from the blank sky within the field of view. Given the source's size, no acquisition is needed. To account for leakage from open microshutter arrays, we will take short LEAKCAL exposures after each science observation; from these observations, we will mask contaminated spaxels.

We will use an 11-point dither to densely sample the IFU PSF and mitigate the effects of bad pixels.