---
id: 8633
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging  NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Conor Ransome"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "7.1/0.0"
program_title: "Back from the dead or the final nail in the coffin: is SN2008S still alive?"
type: "GO"
---
# 8633 - Back from the dead or the final nail in the coffin: is SN2008S still alive?
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=8633
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label        | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :----------- | :----------------- | :------------- |
| 2008S NIRcam | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) SN-2008S   |
| 2008S MIRI   | MIRI Imaging       | (1) SN-2008S   |

---

## ABSTRACT

SN2008S is the prototype for a class of underluminous, dusty transients whos true origins are unclear. 08S-like transients are often regarded as supernova impostors, non-terminal mass loss eruptions of massive stars. However this may not be the case, pre-explosion imaging of SN2008S show that it may have a low mass progenitor and Spitzer follow-up found that SN2008S had faded below the luminosity of its progenitor, perhaps indicating a terminal explosion. However, a surviving progenitor may exist and be dust-enshrouded. This proposal aims to finally solve the mystery of this common class of underluminous (if true supernovae) transient. Using NIRcam and MIRI over a range of filters, we aim to see if the transient is still detectable, construct spectral energy distributions in order to fit models of dust enshrouded progenitors in order to determine if dust could feasibly still be obscuring a survivng progenitor. Furthermore, SEDs of the stars local to SN2008S can be used to estimate the mass, informing us on the mass of the progenitor of SN2008S. The timing of this proposal is perfect as we are on the cusp of an explosion in transient discoveries with LSST at the Vera C. Rubin Observatory coming online in the next year or so. LSST will discover enormous numbers of transients and this investigation will provide a vital case-study for these mysterious objects.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We aim to use NIRcam and MIRI in the following filters: F460M, F560W, F1000W, F1280W, F1500W and F2100W in order to determine whether SN2008S has faded so much that feasible dust behaviour can no longer hide a survivng progenitor or if there is cold dust obscuring the progenitor. Hence this will determine whether SN2008S is a true supernova or an impostor.