---
id: 8663
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Benjamin Sharkey"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "12.8/0.0"
program_title: "Is the Moon an Active Source of Near-Earth Asteroids? Testing the Origins of Earth Quasi-Satellite Kamo`oalewa"
type: "GO"
---
# 8663 - Is the Moon an Active Source of Near-Earth Asteroids? Testing the Origins of Earth Quasi-Satellite Kamo`oalewa
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=8663
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
|-------|--------------------|----------------|
| 1     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) Kamooalewa |
| 2     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) Kamooalewa |
| 3     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) Kamooalewa |
| 4     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) Kamooalewa |
| 5     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) Kamooalewa |
| 6     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) Kamooalewa |
| 7     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) Kamooalewa |
| 8     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) Kamooalewa |

## ABSTRACT

We propose NIRSpec IFU observations of (469219) Kamoʻoalewa, a unique Earth quasi-satellite asteroid discovered in 2016. This is the first quasi-satellite to have its physical properties studied to assess its composition and origins. Analysis of previous observations with 8m-class ground observatories produced the hypothesis that it may represent the first known asteroid to have formed from lunar collisional ejecta. However, Kamoʻoalewa's faintness limits any stricter tests of its material composition from ground-based observatories. Such tests require knowledge of its silicate mineralogy, the presence or absence of organic or hydrated material(s), and measurements of its size/albedo. By observing Kamoʻoalewa with NIRSpec, we will comprehensively characterize the presence of these materials and provide the first measurements of its size and albedo. This program will enable strict tests of the possible lunar origin for this object, testing whether the moon acts as an entirely unpredicted source of near-Earth asteroids in conflict with fundamental population models.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The proposed observations target near-Earth asteroid (469219) Kamo`oalewa. We propose to use NIRSpec in its IFU Prism mode to characterize this Earth quasi-satellite asteroid, which varies in brightness by about 1.5 magnitudes as its viewing geometry changes over the course of annual observing windows. To ensure an efficient use of telescope time, we restrict our observing window to the two months where the quasi-satellite is brighter than V=23. We note that despite this object's close proximity to Earth, and its overall faintness, its orbit is well characterized (with plane of sky 3-sigma uncertainties < 0.2 square arcseconds) and is well within JWST's slew rates (~ 30 milliarcseconds/sec). The groups, integrations, and nod patterns are selected to ensure SNR > 33 near 3.0 microns.