---
id: 8696
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Michael Zhang"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "6.8/0.0"
program_title: "Ammonia and methane on a temperate giant planet orbiting a late M dwarf"
type: "GO"
---
# 8696 - Ammonia and methane on a temperate giant planet orbiting a late M dwarf
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=8696
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label   | Observing Template             | Science Target                |
| :------ | :----------------------------- | :---------------------------- |
| Transit | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) 2MASS-J11335277+1227034 |

---

## ABSTRACT

TOI 6894 is the smallest star known to host a transiting giant planet. The Jupiter-sized TOI 6894b has an enormous 17% transit depth and a temperature of Teq=410 K. We propose to measure its transmission spectrum with NIRSpec/PRISM (0.7--5.2 microns). With just a single transit, we can get a high S/N spectrum that shows prominent absorption features from NH3, CH4, and H2O, which should be independently observable on each limb. Its temperature is low enough for nitrogen to be predominantly in NH3, but not so low that NH3 condenses. This fact, combined with the low gravity and large transit depth, makes TOI 6894b by far the best opportunity to probe the nitrogen chemistry of a giant exoplanet. The methane features will reveal whether methane depletion--frequently observed on hotter planets--applies in this colder regime. The precise metallicity, C/O, and N/O ratios we obtain will also constrain the planet's formation: is it a Y dwarf analog, or--as improbable as it may seem--a metallicity-enriched product of core accretion? Finally, the long ingress and egress makes TOI 6894b an ideal planet for measuring limb asymmetry--that is, obtaining the temperature and composition of each limb separately, which has never been achieved for a planet this cold.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We take 5 h of continuous observations with NIRSpec/PRISM. There should be 2.0 +- 0.5 h of baseline before the transit, followed by the 1.5 h transit, followed by 1.5 +- 0.5 h of baseline. Using the NRSRAPID readout pattern and 10 groups/integration, the brightest pixel will be at 67% of saturation, according to the ETC.