---
id: 8712
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging  NIRISS/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Massimo Griggio"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "9.7/5.3"
program_title: "Unlocking the Secrets of NGC 2808’s Multiple Populations"
type: "GO"
---
# 8712 - Unlocking the Secrets of NGC 2808’s Multiple Populations
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=8712
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
1.  **List of the Labels, the corresponding Observing Template and the Science Targets:**

    | Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
    | :---- | :----------------- | :--------------- |
    |       | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) NGC-2808-F1-D1 |
    |       | NIRCam Imaging     | (2) NGC-2808-F1-D2 |
    |       | NIRCam Imaging     | (3) NGC-2808-F2-D1 |
    |       | NIRCam Imaging     | (4) NGC-2808-F2-D2 |

## ABSTRACT

    This proposal aims to investigate the internal kinematics of multiple stellar populations within the Galactic globular cluster NGC 2808, focusing on two strategically selected outer fields to observe main-sequence stars down to the very low mass regime. The presence of multiple populations in globular clusters still poses significant questions about their formation and evolution, which can be addressed by comparing present-day kinematics with predictions from formation models. Looking at the internal kinematics of a globular cluster as a whole, ignoring its stellar populations, is a naive and too-simplistic approach. The kinematic and dynamical histories of a globular cluster are intertwined with those of their populations and only a complete modeling of the population internal motions can let us understand these stellar fossils. By leveraging the advanced astrometric capabilities of the James Webb Space Telescope, we will measure kinematic properties of the different stellar populations, which contain key information reagarding the formation scenarios. High-precision proper motions of stars across a broad mass range and various radial distances will allow us to measure the degree of energy equipartition and mass segregation among the subpopulations. Our observations will complement existing photometric and spectroscopic studies, providing critical insights into the dynamics and formation processes of NGC 2808, and thereby advancing our understanding of the phenomenon of multiple populations.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

    We propose to use JWST in imaging mode with NIRCam (and in parallel with NIRISS) to obtain high-precision photometry and astrometry of very low mass stars in NGC 2808. High S/N in individual exposures is required to allow us to identify the different subpopulations in the color-magnitude diagram and to measure high-precision proper motions. We plan to acquire multiple dithered images to remove residuals in the geometric distortion of the detectors, to account for the spatial and temporal variability of the PSFs, and to calibrate the local photometric zero points. Proper motions will be derived by leveraging the large amount of HST observations of NGC 2808 in the archive. We chose NIRCam F115W and F300M since they provide optimal separation between the subpopulations in the mass range that we are going to probe. NIRISS parallel fields in F115W and F277W will provide auxiliary data at large radial distances from the cluster center that can be used for ancillary science investigations.