---
id: 8714
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS  NIRCam/Coronagraphy  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Jerry Xuan  Co-PIs: Jean-Baptiste Ruffio, Aniket Sanghi, and Yapeng Zhang"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "19.7/0.0"
program_title: "Combining isotopic and elemental abundances to unveil the formation and accretion history of a cold Jupiter"
type: "GO"
---
# 8714 - Combining isotopic and elemental abundances to unveil the formation and accretion history of a cold Jupiter
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=8714
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label             | Observing Template                       | Science Target    |
| :---------------- | :--------------------------------------- | :---------------- |
| NIRSpec roll 1    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy                 | (3) -eps-Ind-Ab   |
| NIRSpec roll 2    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy                 | (3) -eps-Ind-Ab   |
| MIRI roll 1       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy      | (3) -eps-Ind-Ab   |
| MIRI roll 2       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy      | (3) -eps-Ind-Ab   |
| MIRI BACKGROUND   | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy      | (3) -eps-Ind-Ab   |
| NIRCam roll 1     | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging             | (2) -eps-Ind      |
| NIRCam roll 2     | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging             | (2) -eps-Ind      |

---

## ABSTRACT

eps Indi Ab is the first mature (~2-6 Gyr) cold Jupiter (~275 K) to be directly imaged. Orbiting a mid-K star with a semi-major axis of 21 ± 4 AU, the planet has a dynamical mass of 9.2 ± 0.8 MJup from an updated orbital analysis. So far, the planet has only been detected in two filters with MIRI imaging (10.65 and 15.5 microns), resulting in very limited information about its atmosphere. We propose to comprehensively characterize eps Indi Ab's atmosphere with NIRSpec and MIRI medium-resolution spectroscopy (3-20 micron) along with near-infrared photometry (3.9-4.4 micron). These observations will provide the first measurements of deuterium (D, from CH3D) and a nitrogen isotopologue (15N, from 15NH3) in any exoplanet to date, allowing us to test whether its D/H and 15N/14N are enriched, like Uranus or Neptune, or whether it follows the protostellar values. We will complement these isotopic ratios with precise measurements of N/H, S/H, C/H, O/H, and 13C/12C to test major uncertainties in planet formation models. These include 1) whether late-stage solid accretion significantly enriches the atmospheres of giant planets, 2) the relative role of pebble v.s. planetesimal accretion in forming wide-separation (>10 AU) giant planets, and 3) the degree to which these planets subsequently undergo migration. Most of the stellar abundances used for comparison with the planet values will be measured from planned Cycle 3 observations (GO 5765) of eps Indi BC, the T dwarf binary in the same system.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will collect medium resolution spectroscopy of eps Indi Ab using the NIRSpec IFU and MIRI MRS, as well as NIRCam coronagraphic imaging in two filters.

The NIRSpec IFU observations will use the 2.9-5.3 micron filter (F290LP) at moderate resolution (G395H; R~2,700). The speckles at the planet's location will likely be brighter than the planet itself, so we split the observations into two rolls in order to perform angular differential imaging (ADI) and subtract the stellar halo. We choose 16 dithers to overcome systematics introduced by spatial undersampling of the NIRSpec detector.

The MIRI MRS observations will be performed in four channels with all three dispersers. Together, this covers a wavelength range of ~5-28 micron. The maximum of 4 dithers is selected. We select simultaneous imaging with the MIRI imager to obtain accurate astrometry which will help with the reduction of the dithered MRS observations. We also split the MIRI MRS observations into two rolls in order to perform ADI subtraction of the speckles.

For both NIRSpec and MIRI, the planet's spectrum will be extracted using proven high-contrast techniques from Cycle 1 and 2 observations, which have been shown to reach the photon-noise limit. The planet's spectrum will be high-pass filtered in order to subtract the stellar speckles, so we will use the requested NIRCam photometry and archival MIRI photometry to anchor the continuum flux level.

With NIRCam, we will obtain imaging with the F410M and F430M filters using the round coronagraphic mask MASK430R (best performance at >1.5 arcsec). This choice of filters covers peaks in the planet flux for all plausible models and offers the highest S/N for detection. For each filter, we will obtain imaging of eps Ind Ab with two roll angles spaced by 10-14 degrees to use ADI for subtracting the stellar PSF. Given the large separation of the planet (~3.65 arcsec), we do not require reference star observations.