---
id: 8726
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS  NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Adam Smercina"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "25.0/0.0"
program_title: "A Resolved Infrared Census of Star Formation and AGN Activity in Rapidly Quenched Galaxies"
type: "GO"
---
# 8726 - A Resolved Infrared Census of Star Formation and AGN Activity in Rapidly Quenched Galaxies
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=8726
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                  | Observing Template                 | Science Target           |
| :--------------------- | :--------------------------------- | :----------------------- |
| EA0480-OFF - MRS       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (6) EA0480-OFF           |
| EA0480 - MRS           | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) EA0480               |
| EA0480 – NIRCam        | NIRCam Imaging                     | (11) EA0480-NIRCam       |
| EA0623 - MRS           | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) EA0623               |
| EA0623-OFF - MRS       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (7) EA0623-OFF           |
| EA0623 – NIRCam        | NIRCam Imaging                     | (12) EA0623-NIRCam       |
| EA0815 - MRS           | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) EA0815               |
| EA0815-OFF - MRS       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (8) EA0815-OFF           |
| EA0815-NIRCam          | NIRCam Imaging                     | (13) EA0815-NIRCam       |
| EA0962 - MRS           | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) EA0962               |
| EA0962-OFF - MRS       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (9) EA0962-OFF           |
| EA0962 – NIRCam        | NIRCam Imaging                     | (14) EA0962-NIRCam       |
| EA2360 - MRS           | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (5) EA2360               |
| EA2360-OFF - MRS       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (10) EA2360-OFF          |
| EA2360 – NIRCam        | NIRCam Imaging                     | (15) EA2360-NIRCam       |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose a combined MIRI/MRS and NIRCam survey of 5 low-redshift rapidly quenched galaxies. Understanding the `quenching' of star formation in galaxies is a premier frontier of galaxy evolution, and these apparently rapidly quenched systems are prototypes of this fundamental process. These low-z galaxies are essentially identical in their properties to analogous systems at cosmic noon. They therefore have outsized constraining power for models and observations of strong feedback and star formation quenching across cosmic time. Despite predictions that these galaxies should be ISM-poor, many host large reservoirs of warm dust and molecular gas, which has triggered an active controversy: are these galaxies truly 'quenched', or simply a unique class of embedded starbursts, whose outer disks experienced a burst that has since faded? In this representative sample of 5 galaxies, uniquely accessible to JWST, we will unambiguously address this question, with fundamental implications for understanding galaxy quenching. We will: accurately measure and spatially resolve current star formation activity using dust-penetrating nebular emission lines; image the large-scale ISM at high-resolution; probe low-level and obscured AGN in rapidly quenched galaxies to the deepest-ever levels; spatially map the dusty, turbulent ISM in H2 and PAH emission; and resolve the complete star cluster populations in each galaxy, directly constraining its recent star formation history. Combined, these observations will provide spatially-matched star formation and ISM diagnostics, providing an unprecedentedly detailed view of ISM evolution in galaxies whose star formation was rapidly quenched.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

5 targets are proposed for MIRI MRS and NIRCam. The program is organized into 15 individual visits: 5 for MRS observations of the primary targets, 5 for corresponding equal-exposure MRS background observations (and parallel MIRI imaging of the targets), and 5 for NIRCam F200W/F335M observations of the primary target.

Each MRS observation (primary and background) uses all 3 available wavelength sections (A,B,C), and is set for simultaneous imaging in the F770W filter. Each visit follows a standard 4-point dither pattern, which will optimally sample the PSF and provide robust cosmic ray rejection. The NIRCam observations are set for SW imaging in the F200W filter and LW imaging in the F335M filter. While the 3.3um PAH feature will be slightly redshifted, we have verified that the F335M filter is ideal for all targets to capture this emission, rather than the F360M filter. Each NIRCam will follow a 4-point INTRAMODULEBOX dither pattern, which will also optimally sample the PSF and allow cosmic ray rejection, and either a SHALLOW4, MEDIUM8, or DEEP8 readout pattern, depending on the required exposure time. As the targets are much smaller than the NIRCam FOV (<20-30 arcsec vs. 2.2 arcmin), we have opted for imaging only in the B module to limit the data volume and slightly decrease observational overheads.

For each visit, we set a SPECIAL REQUIREMENT that each MRS observation be in non-interruptible sequence with the corresponding visit targeting an MRS background field for equal exposure time. The background observation position for each is set using offsets, setting the offset to within the visit splitting distance wherever possible, to simultaneously ensure that (1) the target galaxy falls within the MIRI FOV, allowing free simultaneous imaging of each science target regardless of chosen PA, and (2) that the background MRS observations do not fall on a bright star or galaxy in the field. The background fields were checked for bright contaminant sources across the full range of allowable roll angles throughout Cycle 3. For 3 of the 5 targets, all possible background field positions are free of contamination and thus the roll angle is unconstrained. For the other 2 targets a small fraction of the schedulable roll angles will result in bright foreground stars or galaxies within the background MRS field. We therefore set PA constraints to avoid these, but the resulting schedulable window for each is still sufficiently large.

The targets, while extended, are each completely contained with one NRICam module. We position the NIRCam observations using offsets, designed to center the galaxy within one SW detector, to ensure that the majority of each target will be observed during each dither, while also ensuring that any diffuse outer tidal envelopes will still be contained within the entire NIRCam FOV.