---
id: 8739
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/LRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Marc Teng Yen Hon  Co-PIs: Nick Tusay"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "44.0/0.0"
program_title: "Precise Direct Interior Composition Measurements of a New Disintegrating Terrestrial Planet"
type: "GO"
---
# 8739 - Precise Direct Interior Composition Measurements of a New Disintegrating Terrestrial Planet
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=8739
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                   | Observing Template             | Science Target     |
| :---------------------- | :----------------------------- | :----------------- |
| Phase Curve             | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) BD+05-4868     |
| Background Observation  | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) Background     |

---

## ABSTRACT

BD+05 4868 b is a recently discovered short-period exoplanet with a comet-like dust tail. At an apparent magnitude of V~10, the star is the brightest known host to an evaporating low-mass planet candidate. We propose to measure transmission spectra along the phase curve of the transiting dust tail from BD+05 4868 b using MIRI LRS slitless spectroscopy. Comparing the transit transmission spectra to extinction and scattering models will probe the mineralogical and gaseous content of the dust tail, which will determine the elementary composition of the disintegrating planet's interior. The composition of the dust tail will reveal the evaporating planetary layer producing the dust grains while the dust's temperature and the tail's spatial extent -- which are measured with the phase curve data -- will yield further constraints on grain composition through grain size and the dynamics of the gas outflow producing such grains. The high signal-to-noise offered by these observations offers the best opportunity to precisely infer the composition of a rocky planet, providing insights into the formation background of terrestrial planets and their habitability.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to observe the phase curve of BD+05 4868 b using MIRI's low resolution spectrometer (LRS) in slitless spectroscopy mode to collect spectrophotometry from 5um to 12um. We will use the P750L disperser with the SLITLESSPRISM subarray in FAST readout mode. Our observations will use 5 exposures of 9830 integrations comprising 16 groups, for a total duration of approximately 132,885 seconds (36.9 hours). Given the long period of BD+05 4868 b (30.52 hours), this sequence of exposures at the very least is guaranteed to capture one complete transit from ingress to egress, which is the minimum for our science goal. With the large number of integrations, we expect to have events from the high-gain antenna repointing during the phase curve observation, but given that the transients from the HGA repoints are expected to damp out within a few seconds, we expect these to have a negligible effect on our observations. In all readouts BD+05 4868 (K=7.45) is at roughly 80% of the detector's saturation threshold. For target acquisition we will use the standard TA for MIRI LRS slitless observations, acquiring directly on BD+05 4868 itself. We will use the F560W filter with the SLITLESSPRISM subarray in FAST readout mode, and we will have 12 groups in a single integration. This will give the TA image a signal-to-noise ratio of approximately 220, and a peak flux at roughly 60% of the saturation limit.

Since we aim to obtain a full phase curve of BD+05 4868 b, the observations will need to be scheduled specifically for these events. A transit of BD+05 4868b occurs once every 1.272 days (30.52 hours), and a phase requirement of 0.1-0.25 (adjusted to an APT-specified period of 2.544 days) is applied to capture the transit ingress. We have also specified a V3PA range requirement of 88.3 to 94.6 degrees to provide a minimum of 1 arcsecond separation between BD+05 4868 and its binary companion to minimize flux contamination. We have verified that BD+05 4868 b has a visibility window from 07 Oct 2025 to 15 Oct 2025 that satisfies all these requirements.