---
id: 8782
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Katherine de Kleer  Co-PIs: Cody Schultz"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "16.8/0.0"
program_title: "Nominally anhydrous asteroids as reservoirs of water in the inner solar system"
type: "GO"
---
# 8782 - Nominally anhydrous asteroids as reservoirs of water in the inner solar system
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=8782
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label        | Observing Template       | Science Target |
| :----------- | :----------------------- | :------------- |
| Asporina     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (8) Asporina   |
| Justitia     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (9) Justitia   |
| Eos          | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (7) Eos        |
| Pandora      | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (3) Pandora    |
| Lutetia      | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (2) Lutetia    |
| Sylvia       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (5) Sylvia     |
| Angelina     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (4) Angelina   |
| Aegle        | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (6) Aegle      |
| Dembowska    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (10) Dembowska |
| Astraea      | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) Astraea    |

---

## ABSTRACT

The origin of Earth's water remains a central question in planetary science, with current models often emphasizing delivery from carbonaceous (C) chondrite-like bodies from the outer solar system. However, isotopic studies suggest that non-C materials may have played a significant role in delivering water to Earth, highlighting the need to better understand water distribution in these bodies. This study aims to assess the abundance and distribution of water in non-C complex asteroids using near-infrared spectra obtained by the James Webb Space Telescope (JWST). We propose to observe the 2.5–3.5 µm region with the NIRSpec/IFU; in this spectral range, diagnostic OH and H2O absorption features reveal key details about the mineralogy and speciation of hydrated phases. Critically, ground-based observations cannot access this region due to telluric absorptions, making JWST uniquely capable of capturing these diagnostic features. By studying these features, we aim to determine whether nominally anhydrous asteroids exhibit evidence of hydration and if OH/H2O abundance correlates with heliocentric distance. These observations will provide new insights into the diversity of water sources in the solar system, ultimately advancing our understanding of whether the early inner solar system contained sufficient water to contribute significantly to Earth's water supply.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will obtain 1.7-5.3 micron observations of ten nominally-anhydrous asteroids in the main asteroid belt in order to determine (a) whether they are hydrated, and (b) the origins of their hydration. These determinations are made based on the hydration feature at 2.5-3.5 microns, and our exposure time settings are chosen to ensure SNR>200 and non-saturation over this wavelength range specifically. We will use the NIRSpec/IFU with the 235M and 395M gratings, except in a few cases where our targets saturate in these gratings, in which cases we will use the 235H and/or 395H gratings instead.