---
id: 8789
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Yu Cheng"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "5.1/0.0"
program_title: "Disentangle the puzzling jets/outflows in a young protobinary system"
type: "GO"
---
# 8789 - Disentangle the puzzling jets/outflows in a young protobinary system
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=8789
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                  | Observing Template       | Science Target |
| :--------------------- | :----------------------- | :------------- |
| HOPS-361 NIRSspec      | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) HOPS-361-C |

---

## ABSTRACT

Jets and outflows facilitate the mass accretion during protostellar evolution and offer a valuable probe for the mass growth of protostars. We have identified a unique young protobinary system (IRS3) that is in a very early stage of disk fragmentation, with both components still actively acquiring mass from spiral arms and streamers. Both protostars are associated with a spatially resolved jet on 100au scale, seen in radio continuum and molecular SiO, respectively. However, neither jet could account for the CO outflow on a few 1000au scale, unless strong recollimation or bending occurs shortly after jet launch. We propose JWST NIRSpec IFU observations to better characterize the jet material in different phases, thereby disentangle the puzzling relationship of the jets/outflows. Given that the system is a textbook example with gas streamers, spiral arms, and binary jets coexisting at a favorable inclination, IRS3 also offers a rare chance to trace the interplay of gas infall, flow, and ejection across different scales and elucidate the evolution of a protobinary system right after disk fragmentation.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This proposal focuses on a distinctive proto-binary system formed via disk fragmentation. We request JWST NIRSpec IFU mode a square field of view of 3"x3" with a continuous spectro-imaging coverage from 0.97 to 5.27 um. We select the F100LP (1--1.9um), F170LP (1.7--3.2um), and F290LP (2.9--5.3um) filters along with G140H, G235H, and G395H dispersers for the highest spectral resolution (R~2700 or Delta V = 90--150 km/s. This range covers transitions from multiple atomic (HI, HeI, OI, FeI...), molecular (CO, H2), and ionized ([Fe II]) tracers, and allow for a detailed investigation of different phases/compositions of the binary jets.