---
id: 8799
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Sherry Suyu  Co-PIs: Justin Pierel"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "2.5/0.0"
program_title: "SN Requiem and its Encore: Leveraging the first strongly lensed SN-Ia siblings for precision cosmology"
type: "GO"
---
# 8799 - SN Requiem and its Encore: Leveraging the first strongly lensed SN-Ia siblings for precision cosmology
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=8799
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
|---|---|---|
| (None specified in table) | NIRCam Imaging | Requiem2 |

## ABSTRACT

We propose to obtain NIRCam imaging of the galaxy cluster that strongly lensed Supernova (SN) Requiem and SN Encore, enabling independent measurements of the Hubble constant (H0) that are crucial given the current Hubble tension. The time delays between the appearances of the multiple images of a strongly lensed SN provide a direct measure of the time-delay distance and thus H0. SN Encore was discovered serendipitously in 2023 in a previous JWST program and is located close to the center of its bright host galaxy, making the photometry and time delay of SN Encore uncertain. SN Requiem was discovered in the same host galaxy in archival HST imaging taken in 2016, which showed three multiple images, and a fourth image of SN Requiem is expected to reappear in ~2026 based on our new cluster mass model. Our proposed NIRCam imaging has two goals: (1) Obtain straightforward template imaging for SN Encore, improving its photometry and thus the time-delay measurement of SN Encore by ~50%, and (2) possibly detect the reappearance of SN Requiem with up to ~18% probability, enabling a <1% precision measurement of its time delay. For only 2.5 hours, this program will make a competitve measurement of H0 with SN Encore, and has the potential to measure H0 from SN Encore and SN Requiem with <5% uncertainty, an unprecedented precision from lensed SNe that paves the way for lensed SN cosmology.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose a single visit of NIRCam imaging that matches the final epoch of SN Encore DDT observations (PID 6549). Our proposed observations will be used as a template for improved SN Encore photometry and will provide the first chance to detect SN Requiem reappearance. We repeat the final DDT observation without PA restrictions, though we do request scheduling in the latter two observing windows to increase the chance of detecting SN Requiem. We will optimize the pointing for the cluster once a scheduling window is assigned.