---
id: 8824
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Pieter van Dokkum"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "5.9/0.0"
program_title: "Challenging Conventional Galaxy Formation: A Possible 500 km/s Velocity Dispersion at z=2"
type: "GO"
---
# 8824 - Challenging Conventional Galaxy Formation: A Possible 500 km/s Velocity Dispersion at z=2
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=8824
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :---- | :----------------- | :------------- |
|       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) 1256-0     |

---

## ABSTRACT

In 2009, a deep spectrum obtained with the Gemini telescope revealed that a compact galaxy at z=2.2 (1256-0) had a stellar velocity dispersion of 500 km/s, far exceeding any values found in local galaxies. This extraordinary result has faced skepticism due to the low signal-to-noise ratio of the original spectrum, significant formal uncertainties, and challenges reconciling such a high dispersion with the standard inside-out growth paradigm of massive galaxy evolution. However, recent JWST observations have begun to challenge traditional views, providing indirect evidence for an unexpected population of ultra-dense massive galaxies at z=4–7. If these early, ultra-dense galaxies indeed existed, 1256-0 could represent a direct descendant.

We propose using the NIRSpec IFU to acquire a high S/N spectrum of 1256-0 to determine the stellar velocity dispersion with a precision of 7–8%. Confirmation of its extreme velocity dispersion would unambiguously demonstrate the existence of ultra-dense galaxies with exceptionally deep potential wells in the early universe. Additionally, we aim to measure the galaxy's stellar age and metallicity through population synthesis, investigate spatial variations in kinematics or stellar populations, and characterize the spatial extent and kinematics of its (weak) emission lines.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will use the NIRSPEC IFU, with the standard 4-point nod pattern for background modeling.
The galaxy is small enough, with an effective radius of 0.1", that a good background can be created from the standard nods.

The G140M/F100LP grating will be used as it provides sufficient spectral resolution and the optimal spectral range for kinematics and age measurements.

No acquisition is needed as the object is small and the position is known sufficiently well from an HST image.