---
id: 8846
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Nguyen Fuda  Co-PIs: Daniel Apai"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "112.0/0.0"
program_title: "The Polar Expedition: Extracting Spectra of Polar Regions in Planetary-mass Objects and Brown Dwarfs"
type: "GO"
---
# 8846 - The Polar Expedition: Extracting Spectra of Polar Regions in Planetary-mass Objects and Brown Dwarfs
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=8846
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                                       | Observing Template                    | Science Target      |
| :------------------------------------------ | :------------------------------------ | :------------------ |
| 1A) 2M2139, ngroups=50, expo/epoch=303      | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series     | (1) 2M2139+02       |
| 2A) PSO 318, ngroups =100x2, exposures/epoch=34 | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series     | (2) PSO318          |
| 3A) 2M1126, ngroups=83x4, expo/epoch=25     | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series     | (3) 2M1126-50       |
| 1B) 2M2139, ngroups=50, expo/epoch=303      | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series     | (1) 2M2139+02       |
| 2B) PSO 318, ngroups=100x2, exposures/epoch=34 | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series     | (2) PSO318          |
| 3B) 2M1126, ngroups=83x4, expo/epoch=25     | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series     | (3) 2M1126-50       |

## ABSTRACT

We propose a unique, time-resolved, multi-epoch program for three L-T transition ultracool dwarfs and planetary-mass objects, viewed from pole-on to equator-on orientations to test the polar-vortex hypothesis. The polar vortex hypothesis explains observed color--inclination and spectrophotometric trends by assuming that polar regions are dynamically and spectrally distinct from the equatorial and mid-latitude regions. If the polar vortex hypothesis is correct, we will isolate two distinct sets of spectra: one from the polar and one from the equatorial regions. With our JWST program, we will be able to test the existence of polar vortices outside the Solar System for the first time, and tackle an outstanding question: Are there spectrally distinct polar regions of different color, cloud properties, and dynamical timescales in brown dwarfs and planetary-mass objects --- like in Jupiter?

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose for NIRSpec G235H/F170LP Bright Object Time-Series (BOTS) observations of three targets: 2M2139+02, PSO 318, and 2M1126-50 to test the polar vortex hypothesis. To trace spectrophotometric evolution over multiple long- and short-timescales, we propose to probe 6 full rotations over 3 epochs for each object, with 2 rotations per epoch, and a minimum separation of 15x rotations between epochs.

The G235H/F170LP high spectral resolution from 1.66-3.01um would allow the best-quality spectroscopy of our targets, specifically providing a better probing of pressure levels in the contribution function; better constraint on clouds slopes from condensate particles up to radii 3-5um; better probes for H2O, CH4, Na I and K I; crucial access to CO lines to infer a P-T profile location and identify cloud-decks position; and better constraint of Teff.

We require photometric precision of at least 1/5th of the object's J-band variability percentage to guarantee stable spectrophotometric monitoring. Because our targets have different J-band variability amplitudes, we aim for different flux-change precision of 3%, 1%, and 0.25%, corresponding to SNR of 50, 100, and 400 for 2M2139, PSO 318, and 2M1126 respectively.

We performed the exposure time calculation (ETC: 224186) following the recommendations of the ETC guide. We used the ETC-included Teff=1200 K BTSettl brown dwarfs model spectra for all our targets as they are relatively similar in effective temperatures. We set all sky backgrounds to the "high" level in the ETC, and used the SUB2048 subarray with NRS readout pattern.

For 2M2139, we aimed for 3% precision and achieved SNR~83 with 50 groups/exposure for a cadence of 3 minutes. For PSO 318, we aimed for 1% precision and achieved SNR~106 with 100 groups/integration and 2 integrations/exposure, for a cadence of 12 minutes. These SNRs satisfied our requirements.

For 2M1126, a higher SNR is needed due to its lower J-band variability amplitude (1.2%). We settled for 0.25% precision or SNR~400, or ~20 minutes of exposure time (12 samples/3.5 hour period). This cadence should still allow for enough samplings in one rotation period. In order to minimize saturated pixels, we opt for 83 groups over 4 integrations for each 20-minute cadence.