---
id: 8851
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Bettina Posselt  Co-PIs: George Pavlov"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "7.7/0.0"
program_title: "Warm matter around long-period pulsars"
type: "GO"
---
# 8851 - Warm matter around long-period pulsars
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=8851
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
|---|---|---|
| 1 | NIRCam Imaging | (1) RXJ0420 |
| 2 | NIRCam Imaging | (3) RXJ1308 |
| 3 | NIRCam Imaging | (4) RXJ1605 |
| 4 | NIRCam Imaging | (5) RXJ1856 |
| 5 | NIRCam Imaging | (6) RXJ2143 |
| 6 | NIRCam Imaging | (2) RXJ0720 |

---

## ABSTRACT

Disks formed around neutron stars after supernova explosions are of great astrophysical interest. Their occurrence rate and properties are essential to establish the evolutionary links between different neutron star populations, verify predictions of supernova explosion models, and enable studies of planet formation in extreme environments. According to theoretical models, such disks should be numerous around slowly rotating isolated neutron stars. X-ray irradiation from the neutron stars is expected to heat the disks which become (N)IR emitters. JWST NIRCam provides the necessary superb sensitivity and angular resolution to finally find and spatially resolve such warm circumpulsar matter. The proposed distance-limited (<500 pc) sample of most-promising disk hosts provides the best opportunity to study circumpulsar disks in detail or obtain important stringent limits on their occurrence rate.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This survey of pulsars uses NIRCam imaging, aiming to detect emission at the pulsar location and potential surrounding extended emission around it.
All NIRCam observations use the SHALLOW4 readout,
The broad SW filter 150W2 and the LW filter F444W are chosen to maximize sensitivity and spectral coverage.
We use a subpixel dither standard pattern with 3 exposures.
6 targets will be observed. One target (RXJ0420) has a factor 4 longer exposure time than the other 5 targets.
For 4 targets we added PA ranges to minimize the chances of Claws scattering features. These PA ranges correspond to the **** Ranges Under 0.2
of mean **** output obtained from the JWST Rogue Path Tool in June 2025.