---
id: 8857
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Zachariah Milby"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "9.6/0.0"
program_title: "Io's Auroral Emissions as a Tool to Investigate Atmosphere-Plasma Torus Interactions"
type: "GO"
---
# 8857 - Io's Auroral Emissions as a Tool to Investigate Atmosphere-Plasma Torus Interactions
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=8857
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label          | Observing Template       | Science Target |
|----------------|--------------------------|----------------|
| Io in Eclipse  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) IO         |
| Io in Eclipse  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) IO         |
| Io in Eclipse  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) IO         |
| Io in Eclipse  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) IO         |

## ABSTRACT

JWST ERS data of Io in eclipse have demonstrated NIRSpec's remarkable ability to spatially resolve emissions from both S and SO. This first look showed an unexpected co-location between the atomic and molecular emissions, suggesting they may be excited by the same processes. If the SO emissions are electron excited, we will have discovered a new type of aurora which would represent a fundamental shift in our understanding of Io's atmosphere. Observationally, if the SO emissions excited by torus electrons like the S emissions, they will show systematic north-south variation with Jupiter's magnetic field geometry. Consequently, we propose to observe Io in eclipse on four occasions, sampling across the range of magnetic latitudes Io experiences to determine the excitation mechanism of the SO emissions. Additionally, we propose to use the spatially-resolved S emissions to map for the first time the precipitation of the torus into Io's atmosphere and determine how it varies with Io's position within Jupiter's magnetosphere.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to observe Io in eclipse by Jupiter on four occasions, sampling the range of magnetic latitudes it experiences within Jupiter's rotating magnetosphere. These observations are time and date constrained due to (1) the ingress time of the eclipses and their observability from JWST, and (2) the magnetic latitudes traversed by Io during the particular eclipse. Answering the science questions posed in our proposal require the science exposures to start as close as possible to (but not before) the start of the windows provided.
Io in Eclipse (Obs 1-4): NIRSpec IFU High Res 0.97–1.89 micron (G140H/F100LP)
This is nearly the same NIRSpec setup as was used for the Io eclipse observations in PID 1373, though we modified the integrations and groups to increase the temporal resolution and fit the four dithers into the umbral eclipse window.