---
id: 8864
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/LRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Lisa Dang"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "100.4/0.0"
program_title: "Surveying Hellish Worlds: Lava Planets as Time Capsules of Thermal Evolution"
type: "GO"
---
# 8864 - Surveying Hellish Worlds: Lava Planets as Time Capsules of Thermal Evolution
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=8864
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label     | Observing Template               | Science Target   |
| :-------- | :------------------------------- | :--------------- |
| TOI-1807b | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) TOI-1807b    |
| TOI-2260b | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) TOI-2260b    |
| TOI-431b  | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) TOI-431b     |
| TOI-2431b | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) TOI-2431b    |
| TOI-6255b | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (5) TOI-6255b    |

---

## ABSTRACT

Stripped of their primordial atmospheres and heated to extremes that expose a molten surface, lava planets offer a rare and unparalleled opportunity to directly probe the interior of rocky exoplanets. We propose a comparative study of thermal phase curves for five lava worlds, spanning a wide range of ages, to move beyond the typical snapshot view of exoplanets. Our proposed MIRI LRS phase curves will map the atmosphere and surface thermal emission of the planet which uniquely their nightside temperatures and constrain total energy budgets to infer whether their interior is fully molten or has solidified. Moreover, our observations will measure emission spectra of their dayside –predicted to harbor a tenuous atmosphere outgassed from the dayside magma ocean– to unveil its composition which is influenced by its interior state. Volcanic activity driven by a molten interior beneath the planet's crust-much like what occurs on Io– could release sulfur into the atmosphere. Together, the energy budgets and atmospheric compositions will allow us to connect atmospheric properties to the interior thermal states of lava planets, offering a first step toward answering key questions about the formation and evolution of rocky planets. Since all terrestrial planets start as molten bodies, permanent lava planets provide a unique window into the geophysics of early stages of rocky bodies in and beyond the Solar System.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to observe each full-orbit phase curve using MIRI LRS, starting approximately 2.7 hours before the secondary eclipse and ending about 1.7 hours after the second eclipse. The extended baseline before the first eclipse includes a one-hour burn-in period. This baseline also accounts for uncertainties in transit times. For each observation, we will use the F1500W filter with the FAST readout mode for target acquisition, ensuring an SNR > 700. Each MIRI LRS science phase curve will use the SLITLESSPRISM subarray with FAST readout. The JWST ETC was used to estimate the optimal number of groups per integration to avoid detector saturation. The total requested science time for 5 full-orbit phase curves, including target acquisition, amounts to approximately 74.5 hours, with a total charged time of 100.4 hours and a data volume of 133745.79 MB.