---
id: 8872
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Korash Assani  Co-PIs: Zhi-Yun Li"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "7.5/0.0"
program_title: "The Dark Side of the Force: Unraveling Protostellar Jet Asymmetry by Probing TMC1A's Fainter Red-shifted Outflow with JWST"
type: "GO"
---
# 8872 - The Dark Side of the Force: Unraveling Protostellar Jet Asymmetry by Probing TMC1A's Fainter Red-shifted Outflow with JWST
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=8872
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label               | Observing Template                  | Science Target      |
| :------------------ | :---------------------------------- | :------------------ |
| NIRSpec IFU         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy            | (1) TMC1A-NIRSpec   |
| MIRI MRS            | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) TMC1A-MIRI      |
| MIRI Background     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) Taurus-Bkg      |

---

## ABSTRACT

**ABSTRACT**

We propose to observe the red-shifted atomic jet and molecular outflow of Class I protostar TMC1A using JWST's NIRSpec and MIRI MRS. Archival programs (PID: 1290,2104) have mapped the blue-shifted outflow, revealing a collimated red-shifted [Fe II] jet and wide-angle H2 wind with a unique asymmetry: both [Fe II] and H2 outflows are fainter on the red-shifted side, but the H2 outflow is over 3 times brighter than the [Fe II] jet relative to their blue-shifted counterparts. This could suggest that the relative strength of H2 outflow and [Fe II] jet could be different between the red- and blue-shifted side, indicating that the outflow and jet are driven independently from different parts of the disk. As the red-shifted emission is at the edge of the archival data's FOV, we propose observations centered on this component. By obtaining a complete map of the red-shifted jet/outflow, we aim to study differences in bipolar jet+outflow morphology and physical properties (e.g., density, temperature, mass outflow rates) between the red- and blue-shifted sides. This will help distinguish between intrinsic (e.g., differential mass loss) and extrinsic (e.g., ambient medium interactions, extinction) explanations for the observed bipolar asymmetries. Leveraging JWST's sensitivity to probe this deeply embedded system, our study will offer insights into protostellar outflow asymmetries and help constrain launching mechanisms. These findings have implications beyond star formation, as the same launching mechanisms and similar asymmetries in jets/outflows are observed around a wide range of astrophysical systems.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to observe the red-shifted atomic jet and molecular outflow of the Class I protostar TMC1A using JWST's NIRSpec IFU and MIRI MRS instruments. These observations will complement existing public data (proposal IDs: 2104, 1290) that primarily mapped the blue-shifted outflow.

NIRSpec IFU observations will cover 1-5 microns using G140H, G235H, and G395H gratings at R~2700, while MIRI MRS will cover 5-28 microns across all channels. This complete wavelength coverage is crucial for detecting key [Fe II] and H2 lines needed for our extinction and excitation analyses.

Our pointing is offset independently for NIRSpec and MIRI based previous observations to focus on the red-shifted outflow while maintaining partial overlap with existing datasets for alignment. No target acquisition is planned as we're observing off-protostar.

We maintain similar exposure setups to the previous proposals. For MIRI, we double the number of integrations per exposure in this proposal to boost the S/N of key H2 lines, while maintaining low groupings per integration to prevent saturation. Line strengths for ETC calculations are based on MAST level 3 products for [Fe II] and H2 lines detected in the red-shifted outflow where available. For MIRI channels 1-3, where red-shifted outflow data is unavailable due to FOV limitations, we estimate line strengths at 5% of the blue-shifted data brightness at similar spatial offsets. Our ETC v4.0 calculations indicate >3 sigma detection of lines required for extinction and excitation analyses.

We use the NRSRAPID readout pattern for NIRSpec to prevent saturation. We chose the F770W filter to avoid PSF overlap in longer wavelengths, and its simultaneous imaging improves astrometric precision.

This observing strategy will provide a comparative view of both blue- and red-shifted jets and outflows, enabling a thorough analysis of the bipolar structure and a determination of whether the asymmetries in TMC1A's jet and wider-angle outflow are intrinsic or due to external factors (such as different levels of extinction). The high sensitivity of JWST is critical for detecting and spatially resolving faint emission features in this deeply embedded system.