---
id: 8877
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Nicole Wallack  Co-PIs: Julie Inglis"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "25.8/0.0"
program_title: "The Core of the Matter: Constraining the Formation History of a Super-Jupiter"
type: "GO"
---
# 8877 - The Core of the Matter: Constraining the Formation History of a Super-Jupiter
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=8877
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                  | Observing Template                 | Science Target |
| :--------------------- | :--------------------------------- | :------------- |
| TOI2109b_PhaseCurve | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) BD+16-3058 |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose to observe the ultra-hot super-Jupiter TOI-2109b over its full orbit in order to study its core mass fraction and its atmospheric composition. A phase curve using NIRSpec G395H will provide the first constraint on the core mass fraction of a super-Jupiter, allowing for unprecedented insights into the otherwise ambiguous formation mechanism of these giant planets. This planet is the most promising target for such an investigation, meaning that it may be the only chance that we have to understand the formation of super-Jupiters. Constraints on the core mass fraction coupled with a careful investigation of its atmospheric composition with the same data will allow for the best understanding of a super-Jupiter to date.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will observe a full orbit phase curve of the ultra-hot super-Juputer TOI-2109b using NIRSpec BOTS G395H/F290LP (2.87-5.27 microns) with SUB2048. We will use 26 groups per observation, which ensures that the observation will fall under 80% saturation and out of nonlinearity. TOI-2109 is too bright to be used for NIRSpec BOTS target acquition, so we utilize a target acquition star to avoid saturation. We will observe TOI-2109b over its full orbit (~16 hours) plus a second eclipse and adequate time for settling of the telescope, for a total science time of 20.6 hours. Including overheads this is a total of 25.8 hours. The observation will begin prior to the first eclipse with the one hour observing window for flexible scheduling and enough pre-eclipse baseline to both discard an initial maximum of 0.5 hours for settling and determine an accurate out of eclipse baseline. This planet has an ultra-short period, allowing for many scheduling opportunities throughout Cycle 4.