---
id: 8915
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Andrea Weibel"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "4.2/0.0"
program_title: "In Search of Siblings: Spectroscopic Follow-Up of a Candidate Massive Quiescent Galaxy at z ~ 7"
type: "GO"
---
# 8915 - In Search of Siblings: Spectroscopic Follow-Up of a Candidate Massive Quiescent Galaxy at z ~ 7
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=8915
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label          | Observing Template                 | Science Target                    |
| :------------- | :--------------------------------- | :-------------------------------- |
| pano-z7qg-cand | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (1) pano_z7qg-cand_apt catalog |

---

## ABSTRACT

The emergence of the first quiescent galaxies in the Universe is a key question of modern astrophysics, which can now finally be tackled thanks to JWST's unprecedented near-IR spectroscopy. The recent confirmation of the massive quiescent galaxy (MQG) RUBIES-UDS-QG-z7 at z=7.29 has been an enormous surprise, pushing the record for the most distant known such galaxy ~500 Myr closer to the Big Bang. The mere existence of RUBIES-UDS-QG-z7 suggests a number density of MQGs as early as z~7 that is ~100x higher than found in *any* modern galaxy simulation. However, inferring a number density from a single source is notoriously difficult and uncertain due to Poisson noise and cosmic variance. It is therefore essential to thoroughly search for more objects like these. Here we exploit the full archive of extragalactic legacy imaging data available to date with at least 6 NIRCam wide filters spanning over 0.28 sqdeg on the sky. Only one single, reliable quiescent galaxy candidate like RUBIES-UDS-QG-z7 is found. The source has a well-measured photometric redshift z=7.30+/-0.14 and shows evidence of a strong Balmer break and an extended star-formation history with a rapid decline in the SFR in the last ~70 Myr prior to the time of observation. However, we cannot rule out that the red colors are not driven by extreme line emission of an extremely young star-burst at z=5.5. We therefore propose to observe this source with a 2hr deep NIRSpec/PRISM spectrum to confirm (or refute) its post-starburst nature at z~7. This program has the promise to identify a second MQG just 700 million years after the Big Bang which would further challenge current models of galaxy formation.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The main goal of this proposal is to spectroscopically follow up a candidate massive quiescent galaxy at z~7, to confirm or refute its post-starburst nature. To unambiguously test this, we need to be able to detect individual Balmer absorption features at a SNR of ~5.
To achieve this, we choose the PRISM/CLEAR grating/filter pair with a 3 shutters slitlet shape, 2 times 3 nods for optimal background subtraction, a single integration per exposure and 17 groups per integration. Using the NRSIRS2 readout, this corresponds to a total exposure time of 7527.87s.
We will make sure that the primary target is well-centered in the MSA shutter to avoid unnecessary slit losses, and open shutters on potential neighbors within delta_z ~ 0.5, and any galaxies at z>3, prioritizing bright and red targets.