---
id: 8921
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging  NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Eric Peng  Co-PIs: Elisa Toloba"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "25.3/0.0"
program_title: "Learning From Your Failures: Are these Ultra-Diffuse Galaxies the Massive Failures of Galaxy Evolution?"
type: "GO"
---
# 8921 - Learning From Your Failures: Are these Ultra-Diffuse Galaxies the Massive Failures of Galaxy Evolution?
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=8921
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label          | Observing Template                 | Science Target          |
| :------------- | :--------------------------------- | :---------------------- |
| 1              | NIRCam Imaging                     | (1) NGVSUDG-05          |
| 2              | NIRCam Imaging                     | (2) NGVSUDG-19          |
| 3              | NIRCam Imaging                     | (3) NGVSUDG-20          |
| NGVSUDG-05     | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy   | (4) NGVSUDG-05_ngvscat  |
| NGVSUDG-19     | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy   | (5) NGVSUDG-19_ngvscat  |
| NGVSUDG-20     | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy   | (6) NGVSUDG-20_ngvscat  |

## ABSTRACT

Ultra-diffuse galaxies (UDGs) show a puzzling diversity in their properties, from their globular cluster (GC) content to their dark matter content. Only 27 UDGs to date have measured kinematics (mostly from spectroscopy of GCs), and these data have shown that UDGs have velocity dispersions that span a remarkable range, ~10 -100 km/s, in a narrow range of stellar mass. While several formation mechanisms exist to explain the formation of UDGs in dwarf-mass halos with velocity dispersions < 30 km/s, UDGs with dispersions > 50 km/s may only be explained by a dark matter distribution consistent with Milky-Way like halos. Such 'failed galaxies' are missing in all current cosmological simulations. A recent study has identified three UDGs in the Virgo cluster that are extreme outliers, with GC velocity dispersions suggesting virial masses of ~10^12 Msun. These estimates are based on 3-6 GCs per galaxy and need confirmation with larger numbers of GCs that only JWST can provide. We propose to use the NIRSpec MSA to go 1.5 mag deeper than is possible from the ground, tripling the number of GC velocities in these UDGs, and determining whether they are indeed the most massive failures in the Local Universe.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to use the NIRSpec MSA to obtain radial velocities for globular clusters in three Virgo cluster ultra-diffuse galaxies. We will use the G235H grating with the F170LP filter to target the 1.7-3.0 micron spectral region, which contains numerous sharp features (H, CO) with which to measure radial velocities. Because there is no extant imaging with sufficiently precise astrometry, we will obtain pre-imaging using NIRCam with the F150W and F356W filters in the 8NIRSPEC dithering pattern. We will use the NIRCam imaging to select GC candidates using both color and size.