---
id: 8960
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging  NIRISS/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Antonino Milone  Co-PIs: Anna Marino"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "28.4/11.9"
program_title: "A survey of low mass stars in globular clusters: Probing the Origin of Multiple Stellar Populations with JWST"
type: "GO"
---
# 8960 - A survey of low mass stars in globular clusters: Probing the Origin of Multiple Stellar Populations with JWST
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=8960
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label      | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :--------- | :----------------- | :------------- |
| NGC288a    | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) NGC-288    |
| NGC288b    | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) NGC-288    |
| NGC6723a   | NIRCam Imaging     | (8) NGC-6723   |
| NGC6723b   | NIRCam Imaging     | (8) NGC-6723   |
| NGC2808a   | NIRCam Imaging     | (2) NGC-2808   |
| NGC2808b   | NIRCam Imaging     | (2) NGC-2808   |
| NGC6553a   | NIRCam Imaging     | (6) NGC-6553   |
| NGC6553b   | NIRCam Imaging     | (6) NGC-6553   |
| NGC1851a   | NIRCam Imaging     | (7) NGC-1851   |
| NGC1851b   | NIRCam Imaging     | (7) NGC-1851   |
| M22a       | NIRCam Imaging     | (4) M-22       |
| M22b       | NIRCam Imaging     | (4) M-22       |
| NGC6528a   | NIRCam Imaging     | (5) NGC-6528   |
| NGC6528b   | NIRCam Imaging     | (5) NGC-6528   |

---

## ABSTRACT

Despite extensive observations, the existence of multiple stellar populations in globular clusters (GCs) remains an enigma in stellar astrophysics. Their formation may conceal exotic mechanisms of star formation occurring in the early Universe and may impact on the cosmic reionization. This proposal advocates for an extensive exploration of multiple populations with the JWST, considering it a step as natural as urgent for piecing together the intricate puzzle of their formation.

Specifically, JWST observations have been successful in detecting multiple stellar populations in the low-mass regime of M dwarfs, difficult to be accessed by previous telescope facilities. The comparison of multiple stellar populations in these stars with those already observed at higher masses, is a crucial ingredient to constrain different scenarios.

We propose a survey of GCs which deeply explores the variegate zoo of multiple stellar populations in the low-mass stars. The comparison of the multiple populations at different masses and in clusters displaying different numbers of stellar populations, possibly experiencing distinct paths in their development and evolution, will represent a crucial piece of knowledge to finally understand the phenomenon, will provide the community with uniform observations of low mass stars in star clusters, and last but not least, promises a unique opportunity to leverage the recent JWST observations of first stellar systems at high redshifts, offering unprecedented insights into the nature of ancient stellar systems.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose NIRCam observations in the F115W, F444W and in the F200W F277W filters of seven Galactic globular clusters. The images will be dithered (primary dither type intramodule, and standard subpixel dither type) and will be used to derive stellar photometry and astrometry by means of effective-PSF fitting.
We also propose parallel images with NIRISS inn F115W and F200W.
50% of the images will be collected as part as cycle 4 and the remaining 50% of the images of the same field will be collected two years later. These multi-epoch observations will be used to calculate stellar proper motions.