---
id: 8961
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Shmuel Bialy"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "47.1/0.0"
program_title: "Probing the cosmic ray ionization rate with H2 rovibrational line emission - the Taurus survey"
type: "GO"
---
# 8961 - Probing the cosmic ray ionization rate with H2 rovibrational line emission - the Taurus survey
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=8961
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label              | Observing Template                  | Science Target                |
| :----------------- | :---------------------------------- | :---------------------------- |
| B10                | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy    | (1) B10                       |
| B10-background     | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy    | (5) B10-background-region     |
| B211               | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy    | (2) B211                      |
| B211-background    | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy    | (6) B211_background-region    |
| B218               | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy    | (3) B218                      |
| B218-slit2         | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy    | (4) B218_slit2                |
| B218-background    | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy    | (7) B218-background-region    |

## ABSTRACT

Cosmic rays (CRs) significantly shape the thermal and chemical state of dense molecular gas, yet measuring the CR ionization rate (CRIR)—a key parameter in astrochemical models—remains challenging. Traditional methods rely on rare ion absorption measurements toward bright background sources or complex model fitting to emission lines. Recently, the “H2 direct method” was developed, utilizing CR-induced H2 rovibrational emission to measure the CRIR without the need for background stars or model fitting. In a pioneering JWST observation of Barnard 68 (GO 5064), CR-induced H2 lines were detected for the first time, enabling a direct measurement of the CRIR in the cloud, providing strong proof-of-concept for this method.

Building on this success, we propose a survey to measure the CRIR in three dense, starless cores within the Taurus molecular cloud complex. We will also observe the envelope of one core to investigate CRIR variations on sub-parsec scales (<0.1 pc). This will yield CRIR measurements across a range of scales, from cloud core scales to ~10 pc and up to ~300 pc (when complemented with Barnard 68 observations), allowing us to study CR propagation in the interstellar medium and dense cloud cores. The CRIR is a significant uncertainty in understanding CR interactions with molecular clouds. This proposal will deliver robust CRIR measurements across a well-characterized star-forming region and be the first to probe sub-parsec scale CRIR variations within a molecular cloud, offering new insights into the CRIR distribution, the sources of low-energy CRs, and their propagation.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to observe the starless core, B68, using the MOS-NIRSpec instrument.
Since the angular size of B68 is well matched to the field of view of NIRSpec, we plan to use the MOS mode to collect light from a large portion of the cloud. In practice we use the MSA to compose a long slit, and then we will stack the spectra from all (or a significant part of the) shutters to obtain a deep spectrum.
We adopt the G235H grating because it covers the most interesting spectral region in the near-infrared range, where many CR-sensitive emission lines are found. We choose the high-resolution grating, which yields a minimal loss in SNR compared to the medium-resolution grating, because it allows us to resolve the 1-0 Q(1) line from the 1-0 Q(2) line.