---
id: 8975
proposal_type: "calibration"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: ""
program_title: "CAL-NRC-421  NIRCam Linearity Characterization"
type: ""
---
# 8975 - CAL-NRC-421  NIRCam Linearity Characterization
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=8975
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                  | Observing Template             | Science Target |
| :--------------------- | :----------------------------- | :------------- |
| Module A SUB320        | NIRCam Engineering Imaging     | (1) Uranus     |
| Module A Full Frame    | NIRCam Engineering Imaging     | (1) Uranus     |
| Module B SUB320        | NIRCam Engineering Imaging     | (1) Uranus     |
| Module B Full Frame    | NIRCam Engineering Imaging     | (1) Uranus     |

## ABSTRACT

This program characterizes the NIRCam linearity and checks for changes since the ground calibration (CV3) linearity analysis. The primary goal is to obtain images of Uranus across all 10 detectors to verify linearity solutions from ground (CV3 data). Each integration provides sufficient duration to fill the pixels to their full-well depth (saturation). Filters are selected to balance observational efficiency (countrate) with number of groups, allowing for a high number of samples across the fluence range in a short amount of time. The large flat structure of the planetary disk provides both a high number of bright pixels with which to measure linearity, but also provides mitigation of the brighter fatter effect, which leads to systematic errors measuring linearity from point sources, especially in the long wavelength channel.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We obtain deep images of Uranus designed to fully fill the pixel wells to verify the linearity calibration solution.

Specifically, we image the planet on each of the detectors first using the SUB320 subarray using READPATT=RAPID to ensure the number of groups gives adequate samples up the ramp. We use NGROUPS/INT = 85 and INT/EXPOSURE=5. The former ensures the wells are completely full, allowing for measurement of linearity and full well depth, while the later helps mitigate cosmic ray hits, and allows for better statistics. After the 4 exposures on each subarray are obtained on each module, a single Full module exposure is taken for each module, placing the target on the outer corner of A3 for module A and outer corner of B1 for module B. This allows measurement of the linearity solution on different parts of the detectors and checks for a different read timing.

This calibration program may change in response to system developments and the final Cycle 4 science program.