---
id: 8976
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Matthew Belyakov"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "21.2/0.0"
program_title: "Testing Outer Solar System Surface Evolution with Retrograde Centaurs"
type: "GO"
---
# 8976 - Testing Outer Solar System Surface Evolution with Retrograde Centaurs
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=8976
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label      | Observing Template        | Science Target |
| :--------- | :------------------------ | :------------- |
| 2024LY9    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (1) 2024-LY9   |
| 2014AT28   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (2) 2014-AT28  |
| 2020HM98   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (3) 2020-HM98  |
| 2015KZ120  | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (4) 2015-KZ120 |
| 2023SO7    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (5) 2023-SO7   |
| 2017UX51   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy  | (6) 2017-UX51  |

## ABSTRACT

Results on Kuiper belt, Centaur, and Jupiter Trojan spectroscopy with JWST have shown evidence for a compositional link between the KBOs and Trojans via the thermal evolution of Centaur surfaces. However, the pathway through which these surfaces evolve remains unclear. We propose a test of outer Solar System surface evolution with the high-inclination and retrograde Centaurs. These objects with inclinations above 60 degrees are a dynamically anomalous population injected from a yet undetermined source population past 30 au, and with significantly longer average dynamical lifetimes in the planetary region as compared to their lower inclination counterparts. Thus far, JWST has not observed a single Centaur or KBO with i>60 and 5<a<100, a large missing chunk of Kuiper belt dynamical space. By observing six of these targets and determining whether their significantly longer lifespans result in diminished O-H and CO2 features, we will obtain a critically important sample for testing pathways of surface

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will observe six high-inclination Centaurs and KBOs total using NIRSpec IFU mode, seeking to both generally characterize this subpopulation, and obtain vital measurements of the band depths of water ice and CO2 spectral features as a point of comparison to lower inclination Centaurs. We use the low-resolution PRISM grating as our targets are faint and our science does not require higher wavelength resolution mode data. We use the NRSIRS2RAPID readout pattern where possible and NRSIRS2 where the data volume is prohibitively long, with a minimum of 4 dithers, increased to more depending on the necessary exposure time. NIRSpec is the sole instrument that can obtain high-quality 1-5 micron spectra necessary to observe the 4.25 micron CO2 feature. Our targeted signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) is set to match the lower end of past JWST KBO observations (SNR ~10-20 at 4.0 microns), which we match for our targets to enhance the growing library of outer solar system small body data. Total science time for this program is 11.4 hours, total charged time is 21.2 hours.