---
id: 9012
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Antonino Milone"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "20.7/0.0"
program_title: "The missing link for understanding multiple populations in star clusters"
type: "GO"
---
# 9012 - The missing link for understanding multiple populations in star clusters
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=9012
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                      | Observing Template | Science Target    |
| :------------------------- | :----------------- | :---------------- |
|                            | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) NGC-1846      |
| Residual Persistence Check | NIRCam Dark        | NONE              |

---

## ABSTRACT

All massive Globular Clusters (GCs) older than ~2 Gyr host multiple populations (MPs) of stars with different chemical compositions. Understanding the origin of this phenomenon is a challenge in modern astrophysics. One scenario is that GCs were substantially more massive at formation, had several episodes of star formation, and the subsequent mass loss provided a significant contribution to the early assembly of the Galaxy. Alternatively, GCs consist of only one stellar generation, and the MPs are the result of mass accretion onto pre-existing stars. MPs have never been observed in LMC clusters younger than 2 Gyr, where stars heavier than 1.5 solar masses (the only ones that can be studied without JWST) are chemically homogeneous. Nevertheless, these clusters host groups of stars with different rotation rates and masses larger than ~1.5 solar masses. The fact that the age boundary at which MPs are present is also the boundary at which the effects of rotation disappear (i.e. where stars are magnetically braked) suggests that MPs do not correspond to multiple generations but are instead caused by a non-standard stellar evolutionary effect linked to rotation. We propose deep NIRCam imaging of the massive ~1.6 Gyr-old GC NGC1846, which does not host MPs among stars havier than ~1.5 solar masses, and explore for the first time its lowest-mass stars (M-dwarfs). Will they show the MPs expected if the low-mass stars have different chemical compositions as in the old GCs? Or will their low MS remain narrow as expected for a simple generation? The outcome will provide us with the link for understanding the formation of massive clusters in the present day and in the distant past.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to collect images through the F115W and F322W2 filters of the NIRCam detector of low-mass stars in a young (1.6 Gyr old) and massive globular cluster in the Large Magellanic Cloud. The main goals of our project require high-precision photometry and astrometry of M-dwarfs in a relatively large field of view. This dataset will be used to identify and analyze multiple stellar populations among the low-mass stars of our target if present. It will allow us to shed light on the origin of globular clusters and their stellar populations and on the role of globular clusters in the host-galaxy assembly. To do this, we ask for a large number of deep and well-dithered images that will allow us to measure thousands of bright stars in different regions of the detector. Such a dither strategy will allow us to derive high-precision maps of the geometric distortion of the detectors and accurate models of the point-spread function and of its spatial variation. The NIRCam is the optimal camera for our purposes because i) it provides the widest field of view and ii) allows simultaneous observations in the F115W and F322W2 bands. As demonstrated in the proposal, these are the most-efficient filters to identify and characterize multiple populations of low-mass stars. iii) Thanks to its high spatial resolution, NIRCam is the optimal camera to get high-precision photometry in the crowded environment of an LMC star cluster.