---
id: 9022
proposal_type: "calibration"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: ""
program_title: "CAL-NRC-424  NIRCam Persistence Characterization"
type: ""
---
# 9022 - CAL-NRC-424  NIRCam Persistence Characterization
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=9022
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                  | Observing Template          | Science Target |
| :--------------------- | :-------------------------- | :------------- |
| Module A - Sub160      | NIRCam Engineering Imaging  | (1) JUPITER    |
| Module A - Sub320      | NIRCam Engineering Imaging  | (1) JUPITER    |
| Module B - Sub160      | NIRCam Engineering Imaging  | (1) JUPITER    |
| Post-illumination darks | NIRCam Dark                 | NONE           |

## ABSTRACT

This program characterizes NIRCam persistence (latent images) and checks for changes since ground, Cycle 1 and 3 calibration persistence analysis. Persistence is significant in NIRCam detectors, and its characterization needs to be improved. This measurement strategy involves capturing images of Jupiter on both modules, ensuring coverage across all four SW detectors while enabling efficient well saturation. The imaging sequence includes exposures on Module A followed by Module B, with seven hours of full-frame dark exposures to track persistence decay.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This persistence measurement strategy involves obtaining images of Jupiter on both modules, ensuring the target is positioned in the extended source aperture (sub160, sub320) so that portions of the disk span all four SW detectors in each module. Filters are selected that reveal discernible structure (higher and lower count rates) on the disk while enabling the wells to fill rapidly, ensuring the target can reach approximately 1000 times the full well depth efficiently. The imaging sequence involves capturing an image first on module A and then on module B, followed by seven hours of full-frame dark exposures to measure the persistence decay. This process requires exclusive use (using APT engineering and dark templates) of the instrument and, potentially, the entire observatory for the seven-hour duration. While it is theoretically acceptable to integrate other instruments' programs during the dark exposures, the feasibility of scheduling such optimization appears low. Sequencing will begin by:

Illuminated exposure (Jupiter):

1.  ModuleA(SUB160) -> (F200W + F410M, 6 Groups) -> (F150W + F277W, 6 Groups) ->
    a) First filter pair will provide a lower count rate, paired with Sub160 allows several groups to measure the count rate before saturation
    b) Second filter pair is a higher count rate, and allows for one group before saturation. This will define scaling from (F200W-> F150W and F410M -> F277W)
2.  ModuleA(SUB320) -> (F200W + F410M, 4 Groups) -> (F150W + F277W, 1000 Groups)->
    a) First filter pairs will provide one group before saturation, so the count rate can still be measured. This will also expose a much larger portion of the planets disk.
    b) Scaling factors derived from Obs 1 are used to compute the fluence for (F150W + F277W, 1000 Groups)
3.  ModuleB(SUB320) -> (F150W + F277W, 1000 INTS) ->
    a) Scaling factors derived from Obs 1 are used to compute the fluence for (F150W + F277W, 1000 Groups)

Following the illuminated exposure, three set of darks can be taken:
1) First, BRIGHT1 integrations for all detectors; this must be limited to 10 groups each and will be used to capture the initial strong decay of persistence.
2) Second, SHALLOW4 integrations with 10 groups. The first integration, starting after the BRIGHT1 set, captures the more typical case: a delay of a few tens of seconds corresponds to the time needed to dither the telescope.
3) Third, a longer exposure made of 7 MEDIUM8 integrations with 10 groups moving to longer times the persistence becomes lower.
During the darks the telescope can be moved around.