---
id: 9025
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Peter Gao"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "59.6/0.0"
program_title: "The Warm Jupiter Opportunity for Understanding Giant Exoplanet Evolution"
type: "GO"
---
# 9025 - The Warm Jupiter Opportunity for Understanding Giant Exoplanet Evolution
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=9025
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template            | Science Target |
| :---- | :---------------------------- | :------------- |
| 1     | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) WASP-25    |
| 2     | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (2) K2-232     |
| 3     | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (3) WASP-84    |
| 4     | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (4) TOI-2031   |
| 5     | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (5) TOI-677    |
| 6     | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (5) TOI-677    |

## ABSTRACT

The formation and inward migration of short-period giant exoplanets have remained mysterious. Two migration pathways have been proposed: disk migration and high-eccentricity (high-e) migration. Disk migration is predicted to yield planets in spin-orbit alignment with their host stars, while high-e migration should lead to more diverse inclinations. At the same time, the two migration pathways should also impact atmospheric compositions in different ways, with disk migrated planets being able to accrete inner disk material while high-e migrated planets cannot, leading to significantly different metallicities and C/O ratios. Both migration pathways are likely important given the diversity in spin-orbit alignments of Hot Jupiters around hot stars above the Kraft Break and the existence of Hot Jupiters in compact multi-planet systems. Recent observations have shown that Warm Jupiters, unlike Hot Jupiters, are all spin-orbit aligned no matter their host star effective temperature, suggesting that they all migrated via the disk. We propose to observe 5 spin-orbit aligned Warm Jupiters with JWST NIRSpec/G395H and combine the data with those of a 6th, previously observed Warm Jupiter, WASP-80 b, to constrain the population level metallicity and C/O ratio. We will then compare our results to those of the Cycle 2 BOWIE-ALIGN program, which observed spin-orbit aligned and misaligned Hot Jupiters orbiting hot stars, and additional JWST programs that targeted aligned, cool star Hot Jupiters, to uncover the link between migration and atmospheric composition of giant exoplanets.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will observe the transits of 5 warm Jupiters. All observations will be done using NIRSpec/G395H in TSO. The visits will be centered around the mid-transit time of each planet with 1:1 baseline coverage. Target acquisition will be done on the targets themselves for 2 of the planets, while for the remaining 3, which are too bright, nearby target acquisition stars are indicated. All observations will use subarray SUB2048 and will have >10 groups per integration, staying safely below saturation.