---
id: 9026
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Ryan Sanders"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "9.8/0.0"
program_title: "An extraordinary z=4.4 starburst as a detailed astrophysical laboratory to solve Cosmic Dawn mysteries"
type: "GO"
---
# 9026 - An extraordinary z=4.4 starburst as a detailed astrophysical laboratory to solve Cosmic Dawn mysteries
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=9026
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                      | Observing Template                     | Science Target    |
| :------------------------- | :------------------------------------- | :---------------- |
| 17940-MRS-long+medium      | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (1) GOODSN-17940  |

## ABSTRACT

NIRSpec observations of z=6-12 galaxies have revealed many unexpected properties of Cosmic Dawn sources that are unseen in the local Universe, including anomalous chemical abundance patterns (high N/O and He/H at low O/H) and high gas densities. The physical interpretation of these properties has not reached a consensus, and debate is ongoing about their ionizing sources, formation histories, and enrichment pathways. A difficulty in unambiguously interpreting such spectra is that they typically do not detect extremely faint features or long-wavelength lines that can break degeneracies. We propose to obtain MIRI medium resolution spectroscopy of a starburst galaxy at z=4.4, GOODSN-17940, that shares many features with z>6 sources, including high emission line equivalent widths, intense star formation, a lack of a 2175 Angstrom bump in the dust curve, and notably high He/H and super-solar N/O at sub-solar O/H and C/O. This target has an exquisitely detailed rest-UV+optical NIRSpec spectrum with over 70 detected emission and absorption lines from the Cycle 1 AURORA program, with which we can study the physical drivers of these properties in much greater detail than is possible at z>6. Adding the rest-frame near-infrared Hel, Paschen-series HI, [FeII], and PAH 3.3-micron lines covered by MIRI MRS will solve many mysteries in the physical interpretation of 17940's line emission, conclusively identifying the cause of its chemical abundance pattern, identifying the nature of its ionizing source, providing new constraints on its gas density, and revealing its dust composition. These results will enhance our ability to robustly interpret the spectra of Cosmic Dawn galaxies.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The goal of this program is to observe a z=4.4 starburst galaxy, GOODSN-17940, with MIRI medium resolution spectroscopy to detect the Hell.083um, [FeII]1.257um, Paschen-beta, Paschen-alpha, and the 3.3-micron PAH feature, enabling improved constraints on chemical abundance patterns, gas density, ionization mechanism, and dust composition. The target has similar properties to z>6 galaxies and thus will improve our understanding of why z>6 sources show unusual properties including elevated N/O and He/H and high gas densities.

At the redshift of 17940, z=4.411, [FeII]1.257um, Paschen-beta, Paschen-alpha, and the 3.3-micron PAH line all fortuitously fall within the long(C) sub-band in Channels 1-3 of the MIRI IFU. The 3.3-micron PAH line is expected to be the weakest feature and thus constrains our required exposure time. We predicted its flux using a z=0 relation between SFR and 3.3-micron PAH luminosity, and set our required depth to detect this feature at ~5 sigma if it is 5 times fainter than the z=0 relation predicts. In 17940, it is expected that the PAH feature may be weaker than locally due to a lack of a 2175 Angstrom bump in the dust curve, low carbon abundance, and strong UV radiation fields. Inputing this 3.3-micron PAH flux limit into the MIRI MRS ETC, we found that we can detect it with sufficient S/N in an exposure time of 23890 seconds (~6.6 hours) in the long(C) sub-band. This is achieved using 20 groups/integration, 6 integrations/exposure, 1 exposure per dither, and a 4-point dither pattern to sample the PSF. This 4-point dither is repeated twice to achieve the required exposure time.

The Hell.083um line flux falls in the medium(B) sub-band. Its flux was predicted from measured rest-optical helium line fluxes assuming the low-density case where HeI1.083um is the faintest. To detect HeI1.083um at >=5 sigma, the ETC indicates we need 1911 seconds (~0.5 hours) of total exposure time. This is achieved 20 groups/integration, 1 integration/exposure, 1 exposure per dither position, and a 4-point dither pattern to sample the PSF. The medium(C) dither is only executed one time to achieve the required total exposure time.

We use simultaneous MIRI imaging to improve the astrometric reconstruction of the data cubes. Since we are executing 3 dither sequences (2 at ~3.3 hours each in long(C) and 1 at ~0.5 hours in medium (B)), we have the opportunity to use 3 different filters for simultaneous MIRI imaging. We choose to use the F770W and F1130W filters for the 2 long(C) dither sequences, and F1000W for the medium(B) dither sequence. These shorter-wavelength MIRI filters do not have any cross-talk with the IFU since the PSF is smaller than at lambda>12 microns. Since our target is in the JADES NIRCam imaging field that has extensive multi-band HST and JWST/NIRCam imaging, the addition of this deep MIRI imaging in 3 filters will enable new science cases in combination with other JWST data.

Because our target (spatial extent ~1 arcsecond) is much smaller than the smallest field of view of the MIRI IFU (Channel 1; ~3.5 arcseconds), we do not require a target acquisition and the JWST pointing accuracy is sufficient. We have therefore selected "NONE' for target acquisition. The SLOWR1 readout pattern is used for all observations to prevent data volume excess. The 4-point dither adopted is optimized for extended sources.