---
id: 9032
proposal_type: "calibration"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: ""
program_title: "CAL-NRC-425  WFSS Background Characterization"
type: ""
---
# 9032 - CAL-NRC-425  WFSS Background Characterization
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=9032
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label          | Observing Template                         | Science Target           |
| :------------- | :----------------------------------------- | :----------------------- |
| Observation00  | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy    | (1) ECLIPTIC-RA00        |
| Observation60  | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy    | (2) ECLIPTIC-RA60        |
| Observation120 | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy    | (4) ECLIPTIC-RA120       |
| Observation140 | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy    | (5) ECLIPTIC_RA140       |
| Observation180 | NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy    | (3) ECLIPTIC_RA180       |

---

## ABSTRACT

This program will characterize the global sky background for the WFSS mode for the F277W band. The GO community has accrued many 1000s of WFSS images, primarily with three cross filters: F322W2, F356W, and F444W, from which we could determine global sky images by masking sources and averaging through the entire dataset (see report by Ryan, Pirzkal, & Hilbert 2025). However, there are several filters that receive modest use, but based on how the data have been collected (e.g. small dithers or short exposure times), the global sky images that result from the stacking have significant defects from the small number statistics or poor signal-to-noise. Therefore, this program builds on the tacit investment from the GO community by filling in the gaps, and we begin the effort with the F277W band. It is important to stress, the current global sky images available to the community in CRDS are based on model spectra from Pandeia that are projected through the optical model of the telescope and instrument. The initial analysis of the Archive plus these observations represent the first and only empirical determination of the background image.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This program will characterize the global sky background for the WFSS mode for the F277W band. The GO community has accrued many 1000s of WFSS images, primarily with three cross filters: F322W2, F356W, and F444W, from which we could determine global sky images by masking sources and averaging through the entire dataset (see report by Ryan, Pirzkal, & Hilbert 2025). However, there are several filters that receive modest use, but based on how the data have been collected (e.g. small dithers or short exposure times), the global sky images that result from the stacking have significant defects from the small number statistics or poor signal-to-noise. Therefore, this program builds on the tacit investment from the GO community by filling in the gaps, and we begin the effort with the F277W band. It is important to stress, the current global sky images available to the community in CRDS are based on model spectra from Pandeia that are projected through the optical model of the telescope and instrument. The initial analysis of the Archive plus these observations represent the first and only empirical determination of the background image.

The stacking method is described and validated in full detail in Ryan, Pirzkal, & Hilbert (2025), but we give key steps here:
1. divide the rate images by the flat field,
2. use existing sky images to mask spectral traces,
3. remove the 1/f signal,
4. normalize each image to some fiducial region,
5. sigma-clip average through the normalized stack,
6. interpolate over bad pixels indicated in the data-quality or with out-of-family S/N, and
7. re-normalize the interpolated image to the fiducial region.

We have largely selected our target fields to be consistent with those used in earlier dedicated sky observations (PID: 4450) and/or sky flats (PID: 1475, 4443). However with the limited observing time for our program, we prioritize one field near the Galactic plane as Pandeia predicts a considerable enhancement to the overall background level from the Milky Way. Since the Galactic background has a different spectral morphology to that of the net extragalactic background, the projected two-dimensional global sky image will have different pattern/structure. Therefore, this field will be used to empirically validate these effects and bracket the extremes for Users that may observe near the Galactic plane.

In addition to the disparity in numbers of unique exposures in F277W, there are considerably more observations in GRISMC than GRISMR (approximately 5x more observations in C). Therefore, we prioritize data collection in GRISMR, but the field near the Galactic plane, we collect data in both grisms to further constrain the effective two dimensional structure in the background from the different spectral component (Galactic vs. unresolved extragalactic).