---
id: 9033
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/LRS  NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Ryan MacDonald"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "13.7/0.0"
program_title: "By the Ashes of Stars: A Chemical Census of a White Dwarf Planet"
type: "GO"
---
# 9033 - By the Ashes of Stars: A Chemical Census of a White Dwarf Planet
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=9033
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                        | Observing Template                 | Science Target       |
| :--------------------------- | :--------------------------------- | :------------------- |
| MIRI LRS (Transit 1)         | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy   | (1) WD1856+534       |
| MIRI LRS (Transit 1) - bkgd  | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy   | (2) WD1856+534-Bkg   |
| MIRI LRS (Transit 2)         | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy   | (1) WD1856+534       |
| MIRI LRS (Transit 2) - bkgd  | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy   | (2) WD1856+534-Bkg   |
| NIRSpec PRISM Transit 1      | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series  | (1) WD1856+534       |
| NIRSpec PRISM Transit 2      | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series  | (1) WD1856+534       |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose to obtain a detailed chemical inventory for the only known transiting planet orbiting a white dwarf: WD 1856b. Cycle 1 observations in the near-infrared have revealed the planet is far hotter than its equilibrium temperature (450 K vs. 160 K), implying WD 1856b should have substantial thermal emission in the mid-infrared. We propose to observe 2 transits with MIRI LRS to detect multiple molecular species in the mid-infrared beyond 5 um that are not accessible to the existing Cycle 1 observations. We also propose to observe 2 additional NIRSpec PRISM transits to enable precise chemical abundance constraints. Our 4-transit program will yield the first precise measurements of the main carbon-, nitrogen-, and phosphorus-bearing molecules in a post-main-sequence giant planet atmosphere. The short transit duration of this white dwarf planet renders these observations very time efficient, requiring only a total charged time of 13.7 hours. Finally, our out-of-transit MIRI LRS observations will also allow a direct test of planetary thermal excess spectroscopy, providing a new technique to characterize the atmospheres of non-transiting exoplanets.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

To achieve our science goals, we require 2 transit observations with MIRI LRS and 2 transit observations with NIRSpec PRISM of the white dwarf planet WD 1856b.

For the NIRSpec PRISM transits, we will use the NRSRAPID readout pattern on the SUB512 subarray. We will use an identical observing strategy over the two transits to increase the precision obtained over all wavelengths and will not conduct parallel observations. Each observation will consist of 310 integrations with 105 groups per integration, avoiding saturation by staying below 80% full well. The phase constraints ensure we capture the transit along with a minimum pre-transit baseline of 20 minutes and about 15 minutes of settling time to handle ramp effects. The phase range provides 1 hour for start time flexibility to assist with schedulability. We will perform target acquisition (TA) directly on our target, WD 1856+534, using the Wide Aperture Target Acquisition (WATA) mode with the SUB32 subarray and the F110W filter. The readout pattern will use the NRSRAPIDD6 mode with 3 groups per integration and 1 integration, resulting in a 0.26 s exposure time. Our target acquisition strategy allows us to avoid saturation while still achieving an SNR of 59.8.

For the MIRI LRS transits, we will use the FASTR1 readout pattern on the SLITLESSPRISM. We will use an identical observing strategy over the two transits to increase the precision obtained over all wavelengths and will not be conducting parallel observations. Each observation will consist of 122 integrations with 380 groups per integration, avoiding saturation by staying below 80% full well. The phase constraints ensure we capture the transit along with a minimum pre-transit baseline of 20 minutes and about 15 minutes of settling time to handle ramp effects. The phase range provides 1 hour for start time flexibility to assist with schedulability. We will perform target acquisition (TA) directly on our target, WD 1856+534, using the SLITLESSPRISM with the F560W filter. The readout pattern will use the FAST mode with 44 groups per integration and 1 integration, resulting in a 7.0 s exposure time. Our target acquisition strategy allows us to avoid saturation while still achieving an SNR of 28.29.