---
id: 9065
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Katerina Slavicinska"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "26.0/0.0"
program_title: "Characterizing environmental effects on the formation and evolution of water in star-forming regions: Orion as a case study"
type: "GO"
---
# 9065 - Characterizing environmental effects on the formation and evolution of water in star-forming regions: Orion as a case study
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=9065
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                    | Observing Template                 | Science Target            |
| :----------------------- | :--------------------------------- | :------------------------ |
| HOPS 12 NIRSpec          | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy           | (9) HOPS-12_NIRSpec       |
| HOPS 124 NIRSpec         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy           | (2) HOPS-124_NIRSpec      |
| HOPS 358 NIRSpec         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy           | (3) HOPS-358 NIRSpec      |
| HOPS 188 NIRSpec         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy           | (4) HOPS-188 NIRSpec      |
| HOPS 310 NIRSpec         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy           | (13) HOPS-310 NIRSpec     |
| HOPS 321 NIRSpec         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy           | (6) HOPS-321 NIRSpec      |
| HOPS 12 MIRI             | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy| (1) HOPS-12 MIRI          |
| HOPS 124 MIRI            | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy| (10) HOPS-124 MIRI        |
| HOPS 358 MIRI            | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy| (11) HOPS-358 MIRI        |
| HOPS 188 MIRI            | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy| (12) HOPS-188 MIRI        |
| HOPS 310 MIRI            | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy| (5) HOPS-310 MIRI         |
| HOPS 321 MIRI            | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy| (14) HOPS-321 MIRI        |
| MIRI N BKGD              | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy| (7) Orion-bkgd-N          |
| MIRI S BKGD              | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy| (8) Orion-bkgd-S          |

## ABSTRACT

Water is essential to many of the physical processes that drive star and planet formation as well as to the existence of life on Earth. However, how local environmental conditions affect the formation and evolution of water in young star-forming regions remains poorly understood. Deducing these effects is vital to characterizing water's chemical evolution in protostellar objects and, subsequently, how it is accreted from protoplanetary disks by icy outer solar system bodies like comets and habitable rocky worlds like Earth.

To that end, we propose to measure the HDO/H2O ratios in the ice envelopes of 6 isolated young protostars in the Orion molecular cloud complex, suggested to be analogous to the star-forming region where our solar system formed. The source sample was selected to complement other JWST programs measuring ice HDO/H2O ratios in clustered Orion protostars, ALMA programs measuring HDO/H2O in warm protostellar gas, and cometary HDO/H2O measurements. In synergy with these works, the proposed observations will elucidate how local environmental parameters like proximity to other stellar objects affect the formation and chemical processing of water during the pre- and protostellar stages and, ultimately, clarify the veracity of the tentative link between the water in our solar system and the water ice from these most primitive epochs of star formation.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to quantify the HDO/H2O ice ratio toward 6 isolated protostars in the Orion molecular cloud complex. The HDO ice column density will be obtained using the NIRSpec IFU G395M grating, which covers the HDO ice feature at 4.1 um. H2O ice will be quantified using a combination of NIRSpec IFU G235M/PRISM and G395M spectra if the broad H2O 3 um feature is not saturated, with full MIRI MRS spectra providing an alternative means of H2O ice quantification via the 12 um H2O libration band if the band is saturated, as is oftentimes the case toward embedded protostars. The proposed observations all utilize the recommended 4-dither patterns and require NIRSpec leakcal for 4 of the sources due to neighboring bright sources.

By comparing the HDO/H2O ice ratios obtained from this program with those obtained from other JWST NIRSpec G395M data of clustered Orion sources as well as gas HDO/H2O measurements of both clustered and isolated Orion sources from ALMA, the proposed observations will illuminate how water ice deuterium ratios are affected by clustered vs. isolated environments and whether such differences in environments affect the degree to which water is processed once sublimated into the gas phase in protostellar envelopes.