---
id: 9077
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging  MIRI/LRS  MIRI/MRS  NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Tim Cunningham"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "11.8/0.0"
program_title: "The iconic debris disk surrounding the white dwarf G29-38"
type: "GO"
---
# 9077 - The iconic debris disk surrounding the white dwarf G29-38
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=9077
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label          | Observing Template                 | Science Target   |
| :------------- | :--------------------------------- | :--------------- |
| MRS            | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) V-ZZ-Psc     |
| LRS            | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy   | (1) V-ZZ-Psc     |
| MRS            | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) V-ZZ-Psc     |
| Imaging        | MIRI Imaging                       | (1) V-ZZ-Psc     |
| time-series    | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series  | (1) V-ZZ-Psc     |

## ABSTRACT

This proposal seeks to leverage the capabilities of the James Webb Space Telescope to explore and characterize the debris disk surrounding the white dwarf star, G29-38. Our target is the prototypical metal-polluted white dwarf hosting a dusty debris disk, and by far the brightest in the infrared. We propose to obtain time-resolved NIRSpec and MIRI spectroscopy and imaging to measure the disk composition and probe the geometry of the disk. We aim to measure the precise dust mineralogy composition, including contributions from shock-heated and thermally-transformed crystalline grains, and detect the coldest emitting dust which will bring new constraints on the location of the outer edge of the disk. This observation will serve as a cornerstone spectrum for a large sample of white dwarfs with debris disks. Additionally, our observations will focus on probing the short-term (sub-hour) variability in the mid-infrared wavelengths within the debris disk, a phenomenon not previously explored.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

**MIRI MRS Spectroscopy:** We request two epochs of medium-resolution MIRI/MRS spectroscopy at the beginning and at the end of the visit (therefore separated by about 4 hours) to obtain a high S/N spectrum covering the range between 5 and 25 micron. For each epoch, we request 100 groups per integration and 4 dithers for a total of 20 minutes in Short (A), Medium (B) and Long (C).

**MIRI Imaging Time-Series:** We request 1hr 20m of imaging time-series in the two longest wavelength MIRI filters (F2100W and F2550W; 40-min each) to recover an high-precision SED where the MIRI MRS sensitivity drops off (>20 micron). We request exposures of 1.5 seconds in both filters, with subarray (SUB256) and readout mode (FASTR1) chosen to avoid saturation and the 2-point dither for background subtraction.

**MIRI/LRS:** We request 2 hours of high-cadence time series low-resolution spectroscopy with MIRI/LRS. We pick the SLITLESSPRISM mode as it is designed for time series. We request individual exposures of 10 seconds for which the ETC predicts a S/N>30 at 10 micron and avoids saturation.

**NIRSpec Bright Object Time-Series:** We also request 2 hours of high-cadence time series low-resolution spectroscopy with NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series (BOTS) / PRISM. We request individual exposures of 1.4 seconds and a subarray and readout configuration which ensures that we avoid saturation of this bright target. A minimum S/N of 30 is predicted for each individual exposure.