---
id: 9078
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Ian Wong"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "15.5/0.0"
program_title: "Probing the origin and interiors of Jupiter Trojans through the study of collisional fragments"
type: "GO"
---
# 9078 - Probing the origin and interiors of Jupiter Trojans through the study of collisional fragments
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=9078
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label               | Observing Template       | Science Target      |
| :------------------ | :----------------------- | :------------------ |
| ANIUS               | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) ANIUS           |
| EURYMACHOS          | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (2) EURYMACHOS      |
| ZAREX               | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (3) ZAREX           |
| ENNOMOS [phase 0]   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (4) ENNOMOS         |
| ENNOMOS [phase 0.5] | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (4) ENNOMOS         |
| HIPPASOS            | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (5) HIPPASOS        |

## ABSTRACT

Jupiter Trojans have been a persistent enigma for planetary science. Current models of solar system evolution predict that they must have formed beyond the primordial orbits of the ice giants alongside the present-day Kuiper belt objects. Therefore, detailed study of the surface properties of Trojans should, in principle, reveal the telltale signs of an outer solar system origin. Collisions offer a unique perspective on the question of Trojan composition. The resurfaced material on collisional fragments provide a window into the bulk composition of these objects and may retain some chemical signatures that are otherwise obscured or degraded on the uncollided objects. The collisional fragment Eurybates was observed by NIRSpec as part of a Cycle 1 JWST program. The spectrum reveals an exceptionally deep 3 micron absorption band, as well as a never-before-seen 4.25 micron feature that suggests the ubiquitous presence of carbon dioxide in the interior of Trojans. Motivated by this result, we propose to collect spectroscopic observations of additional Trojan collisional fragments. We plan to observe 3 smaller members of the Eurybates family to assess whether the 4.25 micron feature on Eurybates is representative of the entire parent body. We will also target 2 members of the Ennomos collisional family to probe whether there are systematic differences in bulk composition among the Trojan population. Rotationally resolved spectra of Ennomos will explore the surface variability apparent in previous ground-based observations.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will observe 5 Trojan collisional family members with the NIRSpec IFU. The targets are the Eurybates family members 8060 Anius, 9818 Eurymachos, 18060 Zarex, and the Ennomos family members 4709 Ennomos and 17492 Hippasos. Ennomos is known to show rotational variability, and we will observe it twice, targeting opposite hemispheres near 0 and 0.5 rotational phase, in order to probe for compositional graients across the surface that may indicate the presence of both original surface regolith and collisionally resurfaced interior material.

To probe the attested 2.8-3.5 and 4.25 micron features seen in the previous JWST spectrum of Eurybates, we will use the G235M and G395M gratings to provide continuous coverage from 1.7 to 5.3 microns. We require SNR = 40 at 4.25 microns to adequately detect and measure the shape of the carbon dioxide feature; our target of SNR = 46 at 3.0 microns for the G235M observations will ensure consistent sensitivity across the overlapping region between the two grating settings and provide exquisite constraints on the depth and shape of the broad 3 micron band.

Our observing strategy follows standard procedures for faint moving target observations. For each target and grating setting, we will collect a set of dithered single-integration exposures, utilizing the NRSIRS2RAPID readout and a 4-point dither pattern to minimize readout noise and detector effects.