---
id: 9079
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRCam/Imaging"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Paul Kalas"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "11.4/0.0"
program_title: "JWST/NIRCam multi-color monitoring of a rare catastrophic collision directly imaged in a nearby planetary system"
type: "GO"
---
# 9079 - JWST/NIRCam multi-color monitoring of a rare catastrophic collision directly imaged in a nearby planetary system
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=9079
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :---- | :----------------- | :------------- |
| | NIRCam Imaging | (1) -alf-PsA |
| | NIRCam Imaging | (1) -alf-PsA |
| | NIRCam Imaging | (1) -alf-PsA |
| | NIRCam Imaging | (1) -alf-PsA |
| | NIRCam Imaging | (1) -alf-PsA |
| | NIRCam Imaging | (1) -alf-PsA |
| | NIRCam Imaging | (1) -alf-PsA |
| | NIRCam Imaging | (1) -alf-PsA |

---

## ABSTRACT

A fundamental process in the evolution of planetary systems involves constructive and destructive collisions. These are rarely observed in real time except in the solar system. For extrasolar planetary systems, debris disks represent destructive collisions among planetesimals. In the Fomalhaut system, the HST-detected source known as Fomalhaut b has been interpreted as a direct imaging observation of a fresh dust cloud produced in 2004 by a rare catastrophic planetesimal collision. Various studies examined its dimming over time, changes in morphology, and radial acceleration. Here we show that a new source similar to Fomalhaut b has appeared near the dust belt in recent HST/STIS data. If the catastrophic collision model is correct, Fomalhaut “b2” is predicted to expand in size due to radiation pressure and Keplerian shear, become fainter, and follow a trajectory that initially appears Keplerian and evolves to radial. It is unknown if b2 represents a collision between refractory asteroids or icy bodies. Here we propose a multi-cycle NIRCam campaign to measure changes in b2's brightness, color, position, and morphology over the next three years. Since b2 is very faint and HST/STIS does not have filters, JWST is the only observatory capable of tracking the evolution of b2 in real time with a suite of filters that are diagnostic of spectral features seen in asteroids and icy Kuiper Belt objects. The findings will provide exceptionally rare empirical data to inform the theory of collisional processes. Studying b2 will also serve as invaluable preparation for the HWO mission that will need to distinguish between compact transient dust clouds and authentic planetary signals.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The goal is to image a faint point source Fom b2 13"at PA=311 relative to the bright star Fomalhaut. To avoid saturation and the need to use coronagraphy which reduces the throughput, we will offset the NIRCam field so that the star lies 2"-4" outside the field of view. The PSF halo and diffraction spikes still interfere with high-contrast imaging on the detector and we will roll the telescope by 2.3 - 9 degrees (depending on schduling feasibility) for each of the filters used for imaging. A PA contraint is needed to prevent diffraction spikes from falling on Fom b2. To achieve our scientific goals of comparing the colors of Fom b2 to solar system asteroids and icy Kuiper Belt objects, we select dual-band imaging in the F090W, F140M, F182M, and F210M filters in the SW channel and F300M and F360M in the LW channel.