---
id: 9091
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Coronagraphy"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Marvin Morgan  Co-PIs: Brendan Bowler"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "16.1/0.0"
program_title: "Imaging a Hidden Super-Jupiter Accelerating its Metal-rich M-dwarf Host"
type: "GO"
---
# 9091 - Imaging a Hidden Super-Jupiter Accelerating its Metal-rich M-dwarf Host
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=9091
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label               | Observing Template          | Science Target      |
| :------------------ | :-------------------------- | :------------------ |
| HD148427_BG_1065    | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging | (10) HD148427 BG    |
| HD148427_BG 1550    | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging | (10) HD148427 BG    |
| HD148427 1065       | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging | (9) HD148427        |
| HD148427 1550       | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging | (9) HD148427        |
| HIP79431 1065       | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging | (5) HIP79431 F1065  |
| HIP79431 1550       | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging | (6) HIP79431 F1550  |
| HIP79431 BG 1550    | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging | (8) HIP79431 BG 1550|
| HIP79431 BG 1065    | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging | (7) HIP79431 BG 1065|

---

## ABSTRACT

JWST's MIRI is the only instrument capable of imaging mature Jovian-mass planets around nearby stars, as demonstrated by the recent discovery of a massive, temperate Jupiter orbiting Eps Ind. We aim to image a new cold benchmark super-Jupiter similar to a mature beta Pic b identified from the astrometric and radial acceleration of its host star, HIP79431. The M3V dwarf star hosts an inner warm Jupiter and an outer companion which we seek to recover. The long-term RV trend and astrometric acceleration (significant at the 18-sigma level) suggests that the stellar reflex motion must originate from an outer giant planet (~11 MJup) or low-mass brown dwarf at a separation of ~ 5–12 AU. This would be the second direct imaging planet discovery by JWST, and its dynamical mass will immediately enable tests of atmospheric and evolutionary models at low temperatures and old ages.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will collect MIRI coronagraphic observations of HIP 79431 to unveil a hidden massive companion detected in radial velocity and astrometric observations. Observations will be taken with the F1056C and F1550C filters and the 4QPM coronagraph. We will collect reference PSF observations for both of the MIRI observations. HD 148699 will be used as a suitable reference star and is ~0.5mag brighter than HIP 79431. The reference star is within 10 degrees of the science target and appears to be single based on the literature (WDS) and on Gaia RUWE noise statistics. We will collect these reference images with the 9pt dither pattern to ensure optimal PSF reconstruction. Background observations will also be collected near the science and reference targets for all MIRI observations to subtract out scattered light features. We include all observations in a non-interruptible block (SEQ NON INT). This helps to reduce the time gap between science, reference, and background star observations, ultimately enhancing the removal of the stellar PSF and scattered light. Our groups/integration and integrations/exposure are chosen based on the results of simulations with PanCAKE.