---
id: 9095
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/LRS  NIRISS/SOSS  NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Caroline Piaulet Ghorayeb"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "38.0/0.0"
program_title: "Combining Emission and Transmission Spectroscopy to reveal Exo-Neptune Aerosols, Chemistry, and Formation"
type: "GO"
---
# 9095 - Combining Emission and Transmission Spectroscopy to reveal Exo-Neptune Aerosols, Chemistry, and Formation
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=9095
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                               | Observing Template                       | Science Target |
| :---------------------------------- | :--------------------------------------- | :------------- |
| TOI674-transit-NIRISS SOSS          | NIRISS Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy | (1) TOI-674    |
| TOI674-transit-NIRSpec CG395H       | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series        | (1) TOI-674    |
| TOI674-transit1-MIRILRS             | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy         | (1) TOI-674    |
| TOI674-transit2-MIRILRS             | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy         | (1) TOI-674    |
| TOI674-transit3-MIRILRS             | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy         | (1) TOI-674    |
| TOI674-transit4-MIRILRS             | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy         | (1) TOI-674    |
| TOI674-eclipseFinder-NIRSpecG395H | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series        | (1) TOI-674    |
| TOI674-eclipse2-NIRSpecG395H        | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series        | (1) TOI-674    |

## ABSTRACT

> Exo-Neptunes are a key exoplanet demographic: although less abundant than the smaller sub-Neptunes, they are much more numerous than the larger well-studied hot Jupiters, and can provide context to the formation of Uranus and Neptune in the solar system. However, most exo-Neptunes can only be characterized in transmission, which is plagued by aerosols especially between 550-700K. Observational constraints on cloud and haze properties are therefore direly needed to orient and interpret future observations.
>
> We propose to conduct the comprehensive panchromatic atmospheric characterization of the 640K TOI-674 b in transmission (0.6-12 µm) and emission (3-5.2 µm) within a Small JWST program, which will serve as a community benchmark. TOI-674 b is the only warm Neptune where this search can be conducted as it is uniquely amenable for characterization in both geometries and has detected planetary features in transmission. We will combine the strengths of transmission and emission spectroscopy to achieve our three main aims.
>
> (1) We will constrain the presence and properties of aerosols by breaking the clouds-metallicity degeneracy, probing a potential haze slope (in transmission), and constraining the temperature profile and energy budget (in emission) which dictate cloud compositions. (2) We will probe atmospheric chemistry at the CH4/CO transition, where both emission and transmission spectra are sensitive to a potentially high internal temperature indicative of tidal heating. (3) We will constrain the formation and migration of TOI-674 b through a precise eccentricity measurement and via our sensitivity to the atmospheric metallicity, C/O, C/S, and S/O ratios.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

> We will observe TOI-674b in transit and in eclipse with NIRISS SOSS (1 transit), NIRSpec/G395H (1 transit, 2 eclipses), and MIRI/LRS (4 transits).
> For all observations, we used the ETC to verify a lack of saturation and set Ngroups accordingly.
> Transit times are all precisely known and are scheduled with a phase window slightly >1 hr in duration; all transits are scheduled with a total visit duration of twice the transit duration plus one hour.
> Eclipse times for TOI-674b are constrained by their published RV+transit orbital solutions. We propagated the uncertainties on these to find that their eclipses occur 12.5 +/- 2.5 hr after orbital phase 0.5 (significantly eccentric and marginally consistent with circular). We schedule our first NIRSpec eclipse to cover the full 2sigma interval of expected mid-eclipse times. Once the eclipse is seen we use a shorter visit for the subsequent eclipse.