---
id: 9101
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/LRS  NIRISS/SOSS  NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Michael Radica  Co-PIs: Caroline Piaulet Ghorayeb"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "94.6/0.0"
program_title: "Unveiling the Nature of Super-Puffs: A Panchromatic Transmission Spectroscopy Survey"
type: "GO"
---
# 9101 - Unveiling the Nature of Super-Puffs: A Panchromatic Transmission Spectroscopy Survey
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=9101
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
**1. List of Labels, Observing Templates, and Science Targets (OBSERVATIONS Table)**

| Folder                | Observation          | Label                         | Observing Template                       | Science Target                       |
| :-------------------- | :------------------- | :---------------------------- | :--------------------------------------- | :----------------------------------- |
| WASP-127 b Transit    | 1                    | MIRI LRS Transit              | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy         | (1) WASP-127                         |
| WASP-193 b Transits   | 2                    | MIRI LRS Transit              | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy         | (2) WASP-193                         |
|                       | 3                    | NIRSpec G395M Transit         | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series        | (2) WASP-193                         |
|                       | 4                    | NIRSpec G235M Transit         | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series        | (2) WASP-193                         |
|                       | 5                    | NIRSpec G140H Transit         | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series        | (2) WASP-193                         |
| TOI-1420 b Transits   | 6                    | MIRI LRS Transit              | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy         | (3) TOI-1420                         |
|                       | 7                    | NIRSpec G395M Transit         | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series        | (3) TOI-1420                         |
|                       | 8                    | NIRISS SOSS Transit           | NIRISS Single-Object Slitless Spectroscopy | (3) TOI-1420                         |

---

## ABSTRACT

With Neptune-like masses but Saturn-like radii, super-puffs present a fantastic opportunity for spectroscopic characterization. These planets challenge conventional formation models, with their abnormally large radii suggesting that they are inflated by high internal temperatures or aerosols. To unravel the origins of super-puffs, we propose a comprehensive panchromatic survey of the atmospheres of the four most observable super-puffs: WASP-107b, WASP-127b, WASP-193b, and TOI-1420b using JWST NIRISS, NIRSpec, and MIRI.
By acquiring transmission spectra across a wide wavelength range (0.6-12 µm), we will (1) precisely characterize the chemical inventories of these super-puffs, with measurements of their metallicities and elemental ratios, (2) interpret these measurements in terms of the processes shaping the atmospheres, including internal heating, photochemistry and vertical mixing, and (3) assess the role of aerosols on their inflated radii. Primarily, this program aims to address whether the inflated radii of super-puffs are driven by high internal temperatures or the presence of photochemically-produced hazes. In addition, by observing optimal targets with a wide range of planet masses and equilibrium temperatures, we will also probe temperature- and mass-dependent trends in elemental ratios, aerosol production and coverage, as well as the importance of photochemistry, which will all impact our understanding of giant planets more generally. With our proposed observations, we will double the current sample of super-puffs with high-precision JWST observations and provide a pristine set of panchromatic transmission spectra that will serve as benchmarks for the community.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This program will construct panchromatic transmission spectra of the most observable super puff planets.

WASP-107b already has JWST observations spanning 0.6-12µm, and so we do not need any additional observations for this target.

WASP-127b already has NIRISS/SOSS and NIRSpec/G395H observations, and we require an additional transit with MIRI/LRS to complete the necessary wavelength coverage. We use 45 groups per integration and 2*2640 integrations. Additionally, the visit is broken up into two exposures to remain below the maximum frame rate. We time the exposure break to occur a minimum of 1 hr after second contact. Target selection is performed on the target itself. We provide PA ranges in the APT to avoid detector contamination from several nearby sources and also include an additional 45 minutes of baseline before transit to account for the MIRI detector settling time.

For TOI-1420b, we require observations across the full 0.6-12µm range. We accomplish this using a combination of NIRISS/SOSS, NIRSpec/G395M, and MIRI/LRS.
For NIRISS, we use 4 groups per integration and a total of 390 integrations. We specify tight PA constraints to avoid contamination from a crowded field.
For NIRSpec, we use 30 groups and 977 integrations. We choose the M grating over H to be potentially sensitive to H2S, (an important consistuent of S chemistry) which would otherwise fall in the detector gap. We perform TA on the target itself. One pixel saturates during TA, though this should not negatively affect TA performance. We link the NIRISS and NIRSpec observations to capture subsequent transits of TOI-1420b, such that we jointly model the potential impacts of the TLSE from the K-type host star on the atmosphere spectra.
Each of these two observations assumes a total observing time of 2*T14 + 1hr.
For MIRI, we use 75 groups and 2520 integrations. As for WASP-127b, we add PA constraints to limit contmination of the detector as well as an additional 45 mins of baseline to account for detector settling. We perform the TA on the target.

For TOI-193b, we require observations across the full 0.6-12µm range. However, the level of field star contmination is too high for this target to be observed with NIRISS. As such, we use all three of the G140, G235, and G395M NIRSpec gratings as well as MIRI/LRS to create the same wavelength coverage.
For NIRSpec, we use 10 groups and 3513 integrations for G140M, 24 and 1547 for G235M, and 54 and 703 for G395M. Again, we choose the M gratings for sensitivty to H2S, as well as to not worry about the three additional offsets that would need to be modelling due to detector gaps for each grating. TA is performed on the target. Total observation time of 2*T14 + 1hr assumed for all visits.
For MIRI, we use 75 groups and 2*1576 integrations, again breaking up the visit into two exposures (timing the break to occur away from second contact). Again, we add an additional 45 mins of pre transit baseline and add tight PA ranges to limit field star constamination.

Nine warnings remain in the APT. Eight concern HGA moves for each observation. These are acceptable and expected for exoplanet TSOs, and there is no evidence that HGA moves adversely affect data quality.
The final warning concerns the planning windows for th WASP-189b MIRI transit falling within the meteroid avoidance zone. This is due to a combination of the restricted visibility windows and the tight PA constraints necessary to avoid contamination from a close companion. There is no way to relax the PA constraints as this would result in the spectra being entirely conaminated and unusable for science.