---
id: 9105
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging  MIRI/LRS  NIRSpec/FS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Melissa Shahbandeh"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "13.4/0.0"
program_title: "Pioneering Supernova Dust Studies with JWST: Detection of Dust Precursors in SN 2024ahv"
type: "GO"
---
# 9105 - Pioneering Supernova Dust Studies with JWST: Detection of Dust Precursors in SN 2024ahv
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=9105
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label         | Observing Template                | Science Target |
| :------------ | :-------------------------------- | :------------- |
| **Phase 5**   |                                   |                |
| NIRSPEC       | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy   | (1) 2024ahv    |
| MIRI/LRS      | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy  | (1) 2024ahv    |
| MIRI/Imaging  | MIRI Imaging                      | (1) 2024ahv    |
| **Phase 6**   |                                   |                |
| NIRSPEC       | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy   | (1) 2024ahv    |
| MIRI/LRS      | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy  | (1) 2024ahv    |
| MIRI/Imaging  | MIRI Imaging                      | (1) 2024ahv    |

---

## ABSTRACT

The rarity of nearby stripped-envelope supernovae (SESNe) presents an exceptional opportunity to study dust formation and evolution in the early Universe. SN 2024ahv, a rare Type Ib SESN (SN Ib) just 20 Mpc away, presents an unparalleled opportunity to study dust formation and evolution. As the closest SN Ib likely to explode during JWST's lifespan, it offers a unique chance to build a multi-wavelength legacy dataset, providing insights into massive star deaths and cosmic dust formation. JWST has already delivered remarkable early detections of CO and SiO in SN 2024ahv, making this supernova a critical probe for dust formation processes. While dust production in hydrogen-rich SNe II has been the primary focus until now, SESNe, born from short-lived, massive stars, are likely key contributors to early dust in the cosmos. Monitoring SN 2024ahv across NIR and MIR wavelengths will allow us to trace molecular evolution, dust formation, and composition in exquisite detail, offering insights never before captured for an SESN.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We request 27.2 hours of charged time across four epochs over Cycles 4 and 5 (13.4 hrs in Cycle 4 and 13.8 hrs in Cycle 5) to obtain NIR+MIR time series of SN2024ahv between 500–1100 days. These observations will track molecular evolution and dust formation at key stages, with spectra at approximately 550, 800, 950, and 1100 days to monitor CO and SiO, as well as distinguish between O-rich and C-rich dust features.