---
id: 9111
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/MRS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Ilaria Caiazzo  Co-PIs: Tim Cunningham"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "26.7/0.0"
program_title: "An Infrared View of the Type Iax Supernova Remnant Pa 30"
type: "GO"
---
# 9111 - An Infrared View of the Type Iax Supernova Remnant Pa 30
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=9111
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label         | Observing Template                | Science Target |
| :------------ | :-------------------------------- | :------------- |
| Science 1     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) Pa30-1     |
| Science 2     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) Pa30-2     |
| Science 3     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (3) Pa30-3     |
| Science 4     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (4) Pa30-4     |
| Science 5     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (5) Pa30-5     |
| Science 6     | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (7) Pa30-6     |
| Background 1  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (6) Pa30-bkg   |
| Background 2  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (6) Pa30-bkg   |
| Background 3  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (6) Pa30-bkg   |
| Background 4  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (6) Pa30-bkg   |
| Background 5  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (6) Pa30-bkg   |
| Background 6  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (6) Pa30-bkg   |

---

## ABSTRACT

Pa 30 is an extraordinary and unique supernova remnant. A surviving hot star is at its center and shows strong outflows with extreme velocities in excess of 15,000 km/s. Optical spectra of the central star and the nebula lack any indication of hydrogen or helium, while an X-ray spectrum reveals carbon-burning ashes. But the most striking feature is the morphology of the nebula, unlike any previously seen in a supernova remnant: the optical emission is structured in almost radial filaments distributed in a spherically symmetric fashion around the central star. Because of the surviving stellar remnant and the lack of hydrogen and helium, it has been suggested that Pa 30 is the product of a thermonuclear explosion in a near- or super-Chandrasekhar white dwarf that failed to explode the entire star and created a sub-luminous transient. These failed explosions have been observed in other galaxies and are considered a sub-class of type Iax supernovae called type Iax. The discovery of Pa 30 gives us the unique opportunity to study the physics and evolution of the remnant of such an event in our own Galaxy. We here propose to observe 6 sections of the nebula with MIRI/MRS, and the entire nebula with MIRI imaging to 1) reveal if the IR emission is diffuse or filamentary in nature, 2) constrain the contribution of thermal dust and line-emission in the IR, and 3) characterize the physical properties (composition, density, temperature) of the nebula by comparing lines in the IR and in the optical. With its unprecedented angular resolution and sensitivity in the mid-IR, JWST is uniquely suited for this study, which will be key to understand the origin and evolution of this unique SNR.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to observe with MIRI/IFU 6 bright filaments in the nebula, 4 of which overlap with existing optical IFU observations of bright filaments, to obtain medium resolution spectra and detect line emission across the nebula. Taking advantage of the simultaneous MIRI imaging, we also propose to obtain an image of the entire nebula in three filters: F770W, F1280W and F2550W.

For each science pointing, we request 37 minutes of exposure time in each of the three MIRI/MRS wavelength ranges and each of the three imaging filters. We request specific PA ranges so that we can obtain images of the entire nebula in the three filters. Additionally, since the nebula extends throughout the entire field of view of our observations, we also request an off-side background pointing for each science pointing, imposing the "non interruptible" requirement. This sums up to a total exposure time of 13.6 hours (26.7 with overheads). We use the optimized 4-point dithering pattern for extended sources for our science observations, and the 2-point pattern optimized for background for our background pointings. We do not request target acquisition because the 0.3" pointing accuracy is enough for our purpose.

From the images, we will be able to determine the fraction of diffuse IR emission, constrain the contribution and temperature of the dust bump and its variation across the nebula, especially its spatial correlation with the filaments. Also, we will locate with much higher angular accuracy the edge between the inner bright ring and the outer IR halo. From the IFU spectra, we expect to detect several emission lines, which, when combined with the optical IFU data, will constrain the density, ionization state and composition of the filaments, as well as the velocity of the ejecta. The FOV of the IFU is large enough for us to also analyze the spatial distribution and intensity of line emission in and outside the filaments. We will therefore obtain a much stronger constraint on the density and filling factor of the filaments than from optical spectroscopy alone, which will allow us to calculate the total ejecta mass. By targeting filaments in different regions of the infrared nebula, the combination of the IFU with the imaging will allow us to constrain the contribution of line vs dust emission, and therefore constrain the dust-to-gas ratio across the nebula.