---
id: 9177
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Michael Koss"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "2.7/0.0"
program_title: "Unmasking a Potential Recoiling Black Hole or Hyperluminous Blue Variable"
type: "GO"
---
# 9177 - Unmasking a Potential Recoiling Black Hole or Hyperluminous Blue Variable
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=9177
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label              | Observing Template         | Science Target |
| :----------------- | :------------------------- | :------------- |
| SDSS1133-NIRSpec | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) SDSS1133   |

---

## ABSTRACT

The coalescence of SMBHs during galaxy mergers produces strong gravitational waves, which can cause a merged black hole to recoil with velocities up to 5000 km/s. Such recoiling black holes, if displaced from the center of their host galaxy, may retain an active accretion disk and broad emission lines, creating a spatially or kinematically offset AGN. Despite their theoretical importance in black hole-galaxy coevolution models, confirmed cases of recoiling black holes are exceedingly rare.

We propose JWST/NIRSPEC observations of SDSS1133, an enigmatic persistent broad line object offset 800 pc a nearby (30 Mpc) dwarf galaxy. SDSS1133 has displayed AGN-like broad emission lines and significant variability 63 years, yet also shows rare P Cygni absorption and narrow Fe II and [Ca II] emission which have led to interpretations as a hyperluminous massive ) blue variable undergoing eruptions. However, further, AO imaging has failed to reveal star forming regions around SDSS1133, challenging the idea of a massive LBV (M>100 Msun) in a quiescent dwarf galaxy. SDSS1133's X-ray emission is also 4 orders of magnitude brighter than typical LBVs.

We propose JWST/NIRSPEC to search for extended emission or star-forming regions around SDSS1133, associated with a massive LBV star. Alternatively, a lack of extended features would favor the interpretation of SDSS1133 as a recoiling black hole. Either scenario would be groundbreaking and likely common given the small volume SDSS 11133 was found. SDSS1133 could represent a extreme LBV, or a previously undetected population of recoiling SMBHs in dwarf galaxies, with profound implications for future gravitational wave detectors like eLISA.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose observations with the NIRSpec IFU. We chose a 4-point dither pattern to obtain sub-pixel sampling to best recover the undersampled PSF for both NIRSPEC. To reduce the chance of contamination of the IFU data by nearby bright sources, we request leakcal observations for both NIRSpec IFU observations of our targets.

We propose observations with the NIRSpec IFU using the high-resolution gratings to cover the 1.66-3.17um range and 2.87-5.27 umn. Each of the gratings contains crucial regions to study the recoil. Brackett alpha 4.0 um (G395, redshifted to 4.43 um) will enable narrow line measurements in a wavelength regime with even less extinction, though the emission is 4 times weaker than Paschen alpha in Case B recombination. The CO band heads at 2.3-2.5 um redshifted to the G235 coverage and 2.51-2.73 um (G235) trace stellar emission. Warm and dense gas around the potential recoil nuclei are traced by warm molecular hydrogen emission (G235, G395). PAH emission is at 3.28 \micron\ (G395). Finally, high-ionization coronal lines (e.g., [Si VI] and [Si IX]) are in both gratings (G235, G395).

We use the NRSIRS2RAPID readout mode, which improves NIRSpec detector noise performance by interspersing reference pixel reads with science pixels and facilitates rejection of cosmic rays as it provides all frames. The 4-point dither will minimize the influence of any open MSA shutters, and the overall leakage signal through the MSA.