---
id: 9214
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/MOS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Charlotte Mason  Co-PIs: Daniel Stark"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "179.8/0.0"
program_title: "Unlocking the nature of the first galaxies with ultra-deep rest-UV spectroscopy"
type: "GO"
---
# 9214 - Unlocking the nature of the first galaxies with ultra-deep rest-UV spectroscopy
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=9214
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                  | Observing Template           | Science Target                       |
| :--------------------- | :--------------------------- | :----------------------------------- |
| GN_plan_nod_G395M      | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (2) GN_catalog                       |
| GS_plan_nod_G395M      | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (1) GS_catalog                       |
| EGS                    | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (3) Large_targets-EGS weighted-v3    |
| A2744 replan           | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (6) A2744 v4                         |

## ABSTRACT

JWST is transforming our view of star formation and supermassive black hole growth in the first billion years. NIRCam imaging has revealed an unexpected abundance of bright z>9 galaxy candidates. NIRSpec prism spectroscopy has shown several of the brightest sources show extremely high ionization emission lines and peculiar abundance patterns, implying the presence of very massive stars and/or AGN, and detections of Lyman-alpha emission at z>10 suggest these hard ionizing sources may drive an earlier start to reionization than we had expected. However, our understanding has been limited to sources with the brightest rest-frame UV emission lines.

The critical next step is ultra-deep high resolution rest-frame UV spectroscopy of galaxies at our redshift frontier to: confidently distinguish between massive stars and AGN powering galaxies' ionizing spectra, reveal direct emission from very massive stars, uncover the growth mode of high-redshift AGN, measure the physical conditions which facilitate early star formation and black hole growth, and constrain the onset of reionization.

We propose SPURS: the SPectroscopic Ultra-deep Reionization-era Survey - 160 hrs of R~1000 NIRSpec spectroscopy of >150 z~5-14 galaxies, selected primarily from the deepest public spectroscopic surveys, including the majority of spectroscopically confirmed z>9 galaxies, with 30 hr depths in G140M. SPURS will provide the community with a vital legacy dataset for understanding the properties of the first galaxies and AGN, and what drove the reionization process.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will target 4 legacy fields with ultra-deep spectroscopy.

Our science goal requires the R~1000 gratings, with 30 hrs of exposure in G140M/F100LP, 8 hrs of exposure in G235M/F170LP and 3 hrs of exposure in G395M/F290LP. In order to create MOS configurations, we compiled a catalog of spectroscopically selected sources from existing JWST/NIRCam grism and NIRSpec prism spectroscopy of the field.

We use the MSA planning tool to design the MOS configurations and create the observations. For dithering, we choose to nod in the 3-shutter slitlet, with is appropriate for our spatially compact high redshift galaxy targets. This approach has less overhead and maximizes multiplexing efficiency, compared to the fixed or flexible dithering options that require additional MSA configurations. At the time of flight-ready program submission, we will include extra background shutters in empty parts of the MSA, in order to ensure reliable background subtraction.

We set up our NIRSpec exposures using NRSIRS2, which is recommended for deep observations.