---
id: 9218
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 12
instrument_mode: "MIRI/Imaging  MIRI/MRS  NIRSpec/IFU"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Ryan Foley  Co-PIs: Kyle Davis and Kirsty Taggart"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "7.8/0.0"
program_title: "Tracking Dust Formation and Destruction from the Moment Before a Star Explodes to Four Years After"
type: "GO"
---
# 9218 - Tracking Dust Formation and Destruction from the Moment Before a Star Explodes to Four Years After
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=9218
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                               | Observing Template               | Science Target                     |
| :---------------------------------- | :------------------------------- | :--------------------------------- |
| MRS Spectroscopy Background         | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) SN2023fyq-spec-background     |
| MRS Spectroscopy                    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) SN2023fyq                     |
| MIRI imaging in 3 reddest filters   | MIRI Imaging                     | (3) SN2023fyq-imaging             |
| NIRSpec IFU                         | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy         | (3) SN2023fyq-imaging             |

---

## ABSTRACT

Type Ibn supernovae (SN Ibn) are rare explosions of highly stripped stars that interact with helium-rich circumstellar material. SN 2023fyq, the closest Ibn (18.2 Mpc), was imaged by JWST/MIRI three weeks before its explosion, revealing a significant reservoir of cold (120 K) dust. Following the explosion, an extensive observational campaign commenced, including a public DDT program 312 days post-explosion. These JWST data revealed the first definitive detection of warm amorphous silicate dust during this early phase.

We propose to leverage this rare opportunity for continued monitoring of SN 2023fyq with JWST from 2.5 to 4 years after the explosion. These new JWST observations will determine how much pre-existing dust was destroyed, how much new dust formed 312 days after the explosion, determine the dust growth rate and any compositional changes in dust formation over time. We request 15.6 hours of NIRSpec and MIRI observations split across Cycles 4 and 5 (7.8 hours in each cycle). This data will establish a comprehensive legacy archive of SN 2023fyq's evolution. This unique dataset will be crucial for understanding dust formation, binary interactions, late-stage stellar evolution, and rapid mass loss during the final phases of a stripped star's life.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We request 15.6 hrs of GO time (split across Cycle 4 and 5) to obtain NIR/MIR spectra and MIR imaging of the closest Ibn SN~2023fyq from +900d to +1400d. We will use and the MRS and NIRSpec IFU modes for spectroscopic observations, and imaging in the three reddest filters (F1800W, F2100W and F2500W) to probe the coolest dust.