---
id: 9223
proposal_type: "ddt"
cycle: 3
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 38.7
program_title: "Let there be Light: Directly Witnessing the Birth of Metal-Free, Pop III Stars in an Ultra-Faint Galaxy at z=6.5"
type: ""
---
# 9223 - Let there be Light: Directly Witnessing the Birth of Metal-Free, Pop III Stars in an Ultra-Faint Galaxy at z=6.5
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=9223
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                                                              | Observing Template             | Science Target                        |
| :----------------------------------------------------------------- | :----------------------------- | :------------------------------------ |
| glimpse_p3d_g395m, glimpse_p2e_g395m, glimpse_p1c_g395m           | NIRSpec MultiObject Spectroscopy | (8) abells1063_glimpse_merged_v2      |

---

## ABSTRACT

Detecting Pop III stars forming out of pristine gas after the Big Bang is a holy grail of astrophysics. Simulations predict these stars should be observable even as late as z~6. However, JWST is yet to push to the low metallicities and masses of the Milky Way's ultra-faint satellites that bear hints of Pop III stars that exploded at z>6. It is only this month, with the deepest imaging taken yet (~31 mag, GO #3293), that JWST has finally breached the ultra-faint regime.

With this Discovery DDT program we propose to confirm the first unambiguous Pop III galaxy at z=6.5. The 9-band NIRCam imaging (including 2 medium-bands) shows the textbook signature of a Pop III cluster: strong Hydrogen emission (H-alpha, EW~2500 A) along with apparently non-existent metal-lines ([OIII]5008, EW~0 A), accompanied by a Balmer jump marking a nascent (<5 Myr) stellar population. No galaxy with similar colors exists in the entire archive -- it is only JWST's deepest imaging to date, amplified 3x by lensing, that revealed this 1e+5 M_sun candidate. With NIRSpec M-grating observations we will rule out [OIII] flux and leave no doubt about its Pop III nature. Alternative hypotheses are revolutionary in their own right: a new metallicity record, or the discovery of an Intermediate Mass Black Hole.

This program will lay the ground for a new era of Pop III discoveries -- it will validate our novel selection method using strategically chosen medium-bands, and establish the low-mass dwarf regime as the target for Pop III surveys. With profound implications for virtually every subfield of astrophysics, this program promises to bring us closer to the first stars than we have ever been before.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This proposal aims to confirm strong H-alpha and H-beta emission and rule out any significant [OIII]5008 emission to verify the Pop III nature of the target. We require deep sensitivity from 3.5 to 5.0 microns, making NIRSpec with the G395M grating ideal. G395M's resolution allows us to distinguish weak OIII, unlike prism, and achieves approximately twice better S/N for H-beta, enabling stringent constraints on OIII/Hbeta and gas-phase metallicity. This setup also supports our secondary objective to test for an intermediate-mass black hole (IMBH) through a broad Halpha line.

We request 30 hours of exposure (38.7 hours including overhead) to detect H-beta at S/N of 10 and set an upper limit of OIII/Hbeta = 0.1, corresponding to 12+log(O/H) < 5.6 (or [Z/Zsun] < -3.1). This has a significant chance of falling into the theoretical PopIII territory for the first time, enabled by recent deep NIRCam data, and is an impactful initial test for this Director's Discretionary Time program.

MSA slits will include galaxies with zph > 4 as fillers to explore the unique dwarf galaxy regime in this lensing field. We use a 3-point nod pattern and 494 groups per integration with the NIRSIRS2 readout. The target field is available until November 24, 2024, with the next observing window in May 2025; the current window is preferred, but May is also acceptable.