---
id: 9230
proposal_type: "ddt"
cycle: 3
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 13.2
program_title: "The Aftermath of a Transient Deposition Event on Europa"
type: ""
---
# 9230 - The Aftermath of a Transient Deposition Event on Europa
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=9230
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :---------------------------------------- | :------------------------- | :--------------- |
| Europa leading NIRSpec IFU high res       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy   | (1) EUROPA       |
| Europa anti-Jovian NIRSpec IFU high res   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy   | (1) EUROPA       |
| Europa sub-Jovian NIRSpec IFU high res    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy   | (1) EUROPA       |
| Europa trailing NIRSpec IFU high res      | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy   | (1) EUROPA       |
| Europa leading NIRSpec IFU high res       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy   | (1) EUROPA       |
| Europa anti-Jovian NIRSpec IFU high res   | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy   | (1) EUROPA       |
| Europa sub-Jovian NIRSpec IFU high res    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy   | (1) EUROPA       |
| Europa trailing NIRSpec IFU high res      | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy   | (1) EUROPA       |

## ABSTRACT

Recent observations of Europa with JWST NIRSpec have revealed surprising surface compositional changes relative to previous infrared data and pinpoint the onset of changes to within the last several months. We request follow-up observations to monitor the aftermath of this clear compositional shift as the surface continues to evolve under the intense irradiation conditions at Europa's surface. Our proposed program will characterize the nature and extent of the modifications, while also providing a real-time laboratory on the ensuing radiolytic alteration chemistry happening on the surface. As changes are likely ongoing, it is imperative that such observations begin during the upcoming January Europa visibility window with JWST, necessitating Director's discretionary time.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We request two sets of observations (4 rotational phases of Europa in each set) to obtain full NIRSpec G395H coverage of Europa's surface in each the next two observability windows (January and November 2025).

We replicate exactly the exposure parameters of the already successful observations from program 4023, which used a total integration time of 1288 seconds across 5 groups, 5 integrations, and 4 dithers with the NRSRAPID mode. As we are requesting that each set of 4 rotational Europa phases occur in a single JWST FOR, care must be taken to ensure that Jupiter does not fall on the MSA and cause leakage that will contaminate the spectra.

Doing a full visualization in Aladin using a fixed target at Europa's coordinates and position angle constraints from the moving target visibility tool reveals that there are multiple windows in January for which the trailing hemisphere of Europa can be observed without Jupiter falling on the MSA. The sub- and anti-Jovian geometries will be observed slightly toward Europa's leading side to ensure Jupiter is on the opposite side of Europa from the MSA.

The same Aladin analysis shows that there are two windows in November when Europa's leading side can be observed in JWST's leading FOR. Similarly, the sub- and anti-Jovian geometries will then be observed slightly toward Europa's trailing side to ensure Jupiter is on the opposite side of Europa from the MSA in November.

These two sets of observations will allow us to fully monitor Europa's surface composition as it continues to evolve following the apparent surface changes. If the January observations reveal all changes to already be reversed and the surface to have reverted to its pre-existing state, then we will relinquish any time given for November so that it may be used for other programs.