---
id: 9231
proposal_type: "ddt"
cycle: 3
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 9
program_title: "SN 2024vjm, Probing Evolution, Molecule, and Dust Formation in the nearest Type Iax Supernova"
type: ""
---
# 9231 - SN 2024vjm, Probing Evolution, Molecule, and Dust Formation in the nearest Type Iax Supernova
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=9231
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label          | Observing Template                | Science Target |
| :------------- | :-------------------------------- | :------------- |
| NIRSpec        | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy   | (1) 24vjm      |
| MIRI/LRS       | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy  | (1) 24vjm      |
| MIRI/Imaging   | MIRI Imaging                      | (1) 24vjm      |
| MIRI/Imaging   | MIRI Imaging                      | (1) 24vjm      |

## ABSTRACT

SN 2024vjm is the closest (7.2 Mpc) Type Iax supernova (SN Iax) yet discovered. Type Iax supernovae are a class of subluminous thermonuclear supernovae with two branches, Faint and Luminous, likely originating from a non-homogeneous class of progenitor systems. There exist a number of proposed explosion channels, including: (1) a C+O+Ne white dwarf (WD) in a binary system where the primary WD undergoes a failed deflagration; (2) the merger of a O+Ne WD with a C+O WD; and (3) a pulsating delayed-detonation of a near-Chandrasekhar mass WD. Scenarios (1) and (2) lead to a compact, bound remnant; while scenario (3) will produce copious amounts of carbon monoxide and eventually dust. The proximity of SN 2024vjm offers an unparalleled opportunity to determine the nature of Faint SN Iax. SN 2024vjm was observed near maximum light by JWST with NIRSpec and MIRI/MRS, but a follow-up near 220 days is necessary to reveal possible CO and dust formation. We propose obtaining NIRSpec and MIRI/LRS spectra from 1-14 microns, and photometry at 15, 18 and 21 microns to determine the shape of the SED. These observations will elucidate: the symmetry of ejecta; the ionization state and density; whether CO and dust are formed. This observation will vastly improve our understanding of SN Iax. Forgoing the proposed observations will hamper any future science (JWST or ground-based), and the community will be unable to accurately trace the evolution of dust growth in these enigmatic objects. Since the SNe Iax rate is only 15% of the SNe Ia rate, 2024vjm is our best chance to observe a very nearby SN Iax with JWST.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to observe SN 2024vjm with NIRSpec medium resolution, MIRI/LRS, and MIRI imaging at approximately 220 days after maximum light. These observations will divulge: the symmetry of ejecta; the ejecta ionization state and density; whether CO and dust are formed.