---
id: 9235
proposal_type: "ddt"
cycle: 3
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 75
program_title: "Rocky Worlds DDT: JWST Observations of GJ 3929 b"
type: ""
---
# 9235 - Rocky Worlds DDT: JWST Observations of GJ 3929 b
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=9235
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                      | Observing Template    | Science Target |
| :------------------------- | :-------------------- | :------------- |
| GJ3929b Eclipse 1          | MIRI Imaging          | (1) GJ3929     |
| GJ3929b Eclipse 2          | MIRI Imaging          | (1) GJ3929     |
| GJ3929b Eclipse 3          | MIRI Imaging          | (1) GJ3929     |
| GJ3929b Eclipse 4 - Pa rt 1 | MIRI Imaging          | (1) GJ3929     |
| GJ3929b Eclipse 4 - Pa rt 2 | MIRI Imaging          | (1) GJ3929     |
| Pre-Slew for Eclipse 1     | MIRI External Flat    | NONE           |
| Pre-Slew for Eclipse 2     | MIRI External Flat    | NONE           |
| Pre-Slew for Eclipse 3     | MIRI External Flat    | NONE           |
| Pre-Slew for Eclipse 4     | MIRI External Flat    | NONE           |

---

## ABSTRACT

Rocky Worlds is a joint JWST and HST Director's Discretionary Program designed to implement the top recommendations from the Working Group on Strategic Exoplanet Initiatives with HST and JWST. The JWST side of the Rocky Worlds DDT focuses on secondary eclipse measurements of rocky exoplanets orbiting nearby M dwarfs. We will take secondary eclipse time series observations at 15 microns with the MIRI/F1500W photometric filter. With these observations we will measure the dayside temperatures of these rocky worlds, which can be compared to planetary models to interpret whether or not an atmosphere may be present. The Rocky Worlds DDT will advance our understanding of individual rocky exoplanets and broadly explore the existence of an M-dwarf Cosmic Shoreline. Follow-up, complementary observations of Rocky Worlds targets are encouraged. Each rocky world observed by JWST in the Rocky Worlds DDT program has its own set of Program IDs. The observations in this program will focus on GJ 3929 b.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This DDT program will observe secondary eclipses of a sample of rocky planets orbiting M dwarfs with MIRI Imaging photometry at 15 microns using the F1500W filter. The goal of the observations is to measure the dayside temperature as a proxy for the planet's heat redistribution, as well as to measure possible absorption signatures by CO2. The JWST observations will be combined with HST ultraviolet to blue-optical observations to characterize the host star. The stellar UV spectrum is an essential input for models of atmospheric loss and photochemistry.

The 4 eclipse observations of GJ 3929 b are designed to (a) enable a differentiation, at 3-sigma, between an exoplanet with full redistribution of energy from the day to the nightside, assuming an albedo of 0.3, and a bare rock scenario (modeled as a blackbody), with an assumed albedo of 0.1, and (b) account for the uncertainty on the time of secondary eclipse. The former definition sets the number of eclipses to observe (4), assuming noise properties coming from the JWST Exposure Time Calculator. The latter defines the observing time and phase-constraints ingested in this APT file, computed using a "Tinker Scheduling" algorithm, for which it was calculated a risk of only ~10% of missing the eclipses if the orbit is truly eccentric. The risk of missing the eclipses if the orbit is circular is zero.

These observations are in turn divided in two "Checkpoints", after which assessments will be made by the Core Implementation Team (CIT) and the Science Advisory Committee (SAC). Checkpoint 1 (set to Observation 2), will try to detect the eclipse of GJ 3929 b at 3-sigma, which is the best case scenario assuming a bare rock. To add the possibility of slight deviations from the JWST ETC calculations, we have estimated that if the eclipse depth error is 25% larger than the ETC calculation, we should make this detection on the second eclipse. In the event that the eclipse is confidently detected after Checkpoint 1, we will be able to shorten the subsequent observing windows for Observations 3—5. This is why Observations 3–5 are put on hold until Observations 1 and 2 are taken and inspected, and why there is a separation of 6 weeks between Observations 2 and 3 (to allow enough time to perform internal CIT calculations to study the eclipse detectability). If the eclipse is not detected after Checkpoint 1, subsequent observations will continue as planned in the APT submission made on June 2025. The second Checkpoint, set to the 4th eclipse observation (Observations 4 and 5), completes the set of observations to perform the differentiation between full redistribution and a bare rock described above. Note that the 4th eclipse observation is divided between Observations 4 and 5, which are linked observations. This is due to the frame limit being reached during the 7.3-hour integration of the 4th eclipse observation. We set the break in the exposures assuming an early start of the first exposure in the 1-hour scheduling window (i.e., the minimum phase constraint), and place it between the most likely eccentric and circular solutions found by our global fits to available data on the GJ 3929 system. The break is expected to last a few minutes.

More information about the details of the scheduling constraints can be found in the Rocky Worlds DDT webpage (rockyworlds.stsci.edu), which has a full report of the observing strategy defined for GJ 3929 b.