---
id: 9239
proposal_type: "ddt"
cycle: 3
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 11.2
program_title: "Size Measurements of a Potential Earth-Impacting Asteroid with JWST MIRI and NIRCAM"
type: ""
---
# 9239 - Size Measurements of a Potential Earth-Impacting Asteroid with JWST MIRI and NIRCAM
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=9239
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
|-------|--------------------|----------------|
| 1     | MIRI Imaging       | (1) 2024YR4    |
| 2     | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) 2024YR4    |
| 5     | MIRI Imaging       | (1) 2024YR4    |
| 6     | MIRI Imaging       | (1) 2024YR4    |
| 7     | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) 2024YR4    |
| 8     | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) 2024YR4    |
| 3     | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) 2024YR4    |
| 4     | MIRI Imaging       | (1) 2024YR4    |

## ABSTRACT

The asteroid 2024 YR4 was discovered on 25 December 2024, and at this writing has a ~1% chance of impacting the Earth on 22 December 2032. 2024 YR4 enters the JWST observing window in March 2025 and MIRI observations will enable the only size measurements that will be possible until 2028. The availability of sooner accurate and high-quality size measurement, only possible using JWST MIRI in Spring 2025, will be essential for narrowing the range of possible outcomes and allowing effective planning for reconnaissance or impact-prevention missions with arrivals in 2028, and/or preparations for civil defense approaches in the event of a 2032 impact of YR4. The goals of the observations are to determine the size of 2024 YR4 and thus the magnitude of the threat it poses to the Earth, and to provide additional positional measurements to improve the quality of 2024 YR4's orbit after it is no longer observable from Earthbased facilities. The proposed JWST observations of YR4's size will be crucial for developing effective mitigation strategies if needed.

We ask for a very modest amount of time in order to make mid-IR and near-IR photometric and astrometric measurements of YR4, which can be analyzed using multiple thermal models to provide a robust estimate of size. This, in turn, will be used by NASA, ESA, and other space agencies to assess options most efficiently.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We request MIRI imaging in March with 3 filters: F1280W, F1130W, and F1500W. We will cycle through the latter two filters with the F1280W filter in-between each other filter observation. We propose using roughly 20-minute exposures, which average over YR4’s entire rotation period (and allows measurements up the ramp to potentially allow rotationally-resolved studies of thermal properties). Five exposures of 20 minutes totals 100 minutes not including overhead. We also propose 20 minutes of integration using NIRCAM with the F150W2 and F322W2 filters to allow better thermal modeling and for use to augment ground-based astrometric efforts. With the additional 20 minutes, the March 2025 request is for two hours of integrtions.

We also request 20 minutes of NIRCAM time in May 2025 using the same filters as above, for purposes of obtaining astrometric data.

In total, 6.3 hours are requested when overhead is included.