---
id: 9245
proposal_type: "ddt"
cycle: 3
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 4.8
program_title: "The unprecedented appearance and future evolution of silicate emission in the disk of T Cha"
type: ""
---
# 9245 - The unprecedented appearance and future evolution of silicate emission in the disk of T Cha
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=9245
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                      | Observing Template                | Science Target      |
| :------------------------- | :-------------------------------- | :------------------ |
| T Cha MIRI MRS             | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) V-T-Cha         |
| T Cha background MIR I MRS | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) T-Cha-background |

---

## ABSTRACT

The T Tauri star T Cha was observed with JWST/MIRI in 2022. Neither this mid-infrared spectrum, nor an earlier Spitzer spectrum showed any sign of silicate emission in the N-band. Analysing a VLTI/MATISSE observation from this January, however, we discovered a strong, spectacular silicate emission feature. Such a sudden change in the thermal spectrum of a young star is unprecedented. The origin of the silicate emission may be 1) recondensation of dust evaporated from the inner disk wall in a preceding burst; 2) the illumination of pre-existing grains due to changing disk shadow pattern; or 3) planetesimal collision producing debris. Here we propose to obtain a new JWST/MIRI spectrum, aiming to provide the first sensitive, high signal-to-noise observation of the silicate feature, reveal its temporal evolution, and study the disk structure and mineralogy. Our ultimate goal is to identify the origin of the new feature. We apply for a DDT to follow-up the newly discovered silicate feature, which may be a transient phenomenon with fast time-evolution, thus the observations are urgent. T Cha is visible starting in February 2025, which is still Cycle 3 of JWST.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to obtain a MIRI MRS spectrum of the highly variable young stellar object T Chamaeleontis. Our aim is to study the variability of the continuum and the emission features in comparison with an earlier MIRI MRS spectrum of the object obtained in 2022. For most wavelength regimes, we set 25 groups per integration, same as in the MIRI observation from 2022. In line with our expectation that T Cha will be brighter now, we set 7 integrations per exposure, a lower number than in 2022. This has the added benefit that we avoid excessive data rates. The exceptions are the Short Medium and Short Long wavelength ranges, where T Cha is expected to be significantly brighter thanks to the appearance of a strong 10 micrometer silicate features. Here, we will use 15 groups per integration and 11 integrations per exposure, to have similar exposure times as in all other wavelength ranges. We will use a 4-point dither pattern. The ETC tells us that we will reach a signal-to-noise ratio of 830-1140 in Channels 1-3 and 360-660 in Channel 4. This will allow us a proper comparison with the spectrum from 2022 and is well suited for the planned modeling of the continuum and spectral features. We will use target acquisition with the neutral density filter to properly center our target in the small MIRI field of view. We checked with the ETC that T Cha does not saturate the detector and target acquisition should be feasible. We will observe a separate sky region to enable proper background subtraction. This sky observation uses the same exposure parameters as the science observation but only 2 dither positions.