---
id: 9249
proposal_type: "ddt"
cycle: 3
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 6.1
program_title: "JWST observations of the off-nuclear TDE AT 2024tvd"
type: ""
---
# 9249 - JWST observations of the off-nuclear TDE AT 2024tvd
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=9249
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                  | Observing Template       | Science Target |
| :--------------------- | :----------------------- | :------------- |
| NIRSPEC IFU 2024tvd    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) 2024tvd    |
| NIRCam 2024tvd         | NIRCam Imaging           | (1) 2024tvd    |

---

## ABSTRACT

Simulations of galaxy mergers predict a significant population of off-nuclear massive black holes (MBHs), which may be further supplemented by recoil kicks from gravitational wave mergers. Tidal disruption events (TDEs) around these wandering MBHs offer a rare opportunity to study these otherwise inactive black holes.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Recently, AT 2024tvd became the first confirmed off-nuclear TDE. We propose JWST NIRCam and NIRSpec IFU observations of this event and its host galaxy to: 1) Conduct a kinematic study of the TDE and its host galaxy to determine whether the MBH was ejected from the nucleus either via gravitational wave recoil or three-body interaction. 2) Measure the TDE's infrared spectral energy distribution (SED) to constrain the accretion disk properties and test for a bound nuclear star cluster that may be feeding stars to the MBH. 3) Understand the properties of dust near the TDE site. Additionally, high-resolution imaging will help detect faint features linked to stellar dynamics along the MBH's trajectory. These observations will provide critical insights into the coevolution of MBHs and their host galaxies.

Observations include NIRSpec IFU spectroscopy and NIRCam imaging.

NIRSpec IFU spectroscopy will be performed using three disperser-filter combinations to cover the full NIRSpec wavelength range:
G140H + F100LP
G235H + F170LP
G395H + F290LP

NIRCam imaging will be conducted simultaneously in both the SW and LW channels using the following filters:
F090W
F150W
F277W
F444W