---
id: 9251
proposal_type: "ddt"
cycle: 3
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 3.3
program_title: "Probing Pre-Existing Dust in SN 2024xuo with JWST: Insights into Massive Star Evolution"
type: ""
---
# 9251 - Probing Pre-Existing Dust in SN 2024xuo with JWST: Insights into Massive Star Evolution
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=9251
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label              | Observing Template                  | Science Target   |
| :----------------- | :---------------------------------- | :--------------- |
| SN2024xuo MRS      | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) SN2024xuo    |
| SN2024xuo Imaging  | MIRI Imaging                        | (1) SN2024xuo    |

---

## ABSTRACT

Core-collapse supernovae (CCSNe), particularly Type IIn, play a crucial role in the production of cosmic dust. These SNe, particularly Type IIn, are known for their significant dust formation due to their interaction with circumstellar material (CSM). However, there has been a significant discrepancy between the dust masses predicted by theoretical models and those observed in SN ejecta, with observed amounts being two orders of magnitude lower. Recent observations using the James Webb Space Telescope (JWST) have highlighted the significance of mid-infrared (MIR) studies in understanding dust properties in these SNe, addressing this discrepancy by the presence of large amounts of dust at longer MIR wavelengths in very late epochs in the evolution of Type IIn SNe. This proposal aims to leverage the unique capabilities of JWST to conduct early-time MIR spectroscopic and photometric observations of the newly-discovered Type IIn supernova SN 2024xuo, located at approximately 23.5Mpc. SN 2024xuo, the closest SN IIn discovered in the last decade, presents a rare opportunity to study the properties of pre-existing dust in the circumstellar material (CSM) of such SNe. By obtaining high-resolution MIR data, we aim to trace the composition, temperature, and mass of the dust, providing critical insights into the late stages of mass loss in massive stars. These observations will not only enhance our understanding of dust production in the early universe but also serve as a legacy dataset for future studies of similar systems.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will observe the SN 2024xuo, a newly-discovered Type IIn SN, that is presenting insights of pre-existing dust according to our preliminary analyses. Our goal is to constrain the luminosity and the properties of the dusty surrounding material at early-epoch in its evolution. To do this, we require to obtain the following observations:

MIRI:
---- MRS:
---- TA same as target, F560W, FAST, 4groups/int
---- 4-point dither pattern
---- 100 groups/integrations in all channels
---- All are set to FASTR1 readout mode
---- Imaging:
---- FULL subarray
---- 4-point dither pattern (point-source, positive)
---- Starting in the 5th position and only 1 set
---- Images in four bands: F1500W, F1800W, F2100W, F2550W (in that order to avoid high background)
---- All bands require 10 groups / integration, 1 integration / exp, 1 exposure /dith