---
id: 9252
proposal_type: "ddt"
cycle: 3
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 45.5
program_title: "Confirming a Planet Orbiting Our Closest Solar Twin"
type: ""
---
# 9252 - Confirming a Planet Orbiting Our Closest Solar Twin
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=9252
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                                              | Observing Template              | Science Target                      |
| :------------------------------------------------- | :------------------------------ | :---------------------------------- |
| eps Mus Position A. use offset star G9             | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging      | (1) NEW-EPS-MUS-OFFSET-G9           |
| eps Mus Position A BACKGROUND                      | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging      | (2) NEW-EPS-MUS-BACKGROUND1         |
| Observe Eps Mus at position of AcenB for PSF reference | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging      | (1) NEW-EPS-MUS-OFFSET-G9           |
| Alpha Cen A F1550 Roll 1 Offset star G5            | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging      | (8) AlphaCenOffsetStarG5            |
| Alpha Cen A F1550 - BACKGROUND                     | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging      | (4) Final_Acen_Bkgnd1               |
| Alpha Cen A F1550 Roll 2 Offset star G5            | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging      | (8) AlphaCenOffsetStarG5            |
| Alpha Cen A F1550 - BACKGROUND                     | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging      | (6) Final_Acen_Bkgnd2               |
| offset star for eps Mus. Offset G9. Obs 2          | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging      | (1) NEW-EPS-MUS-OFFSET-G9           |
| offset star for eps Mus. BACKGROUND                | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging      | (2) NEW-EPS-MUS-BACKGROUND1         |
| Observe Eps Mus at position of AcenB for PSF reference | MIRI Coronagraphic Imaging      | (1) NEW-EPS-MUS-OFFSET-G9           |

---

## ABSTRACT

Cycles 1 and 3 observations have detected a promising candidate gas giant planet orbiting within the Habitable Zone of a nearby solar-type star. Two distinct point source-like objects are seen in MIRI F1550C coronagraphic data at separations of ~1.5" in locations consistent with a bound 1.5 au semi-major axis orbit. Archival imaging data and the MIRI data themselves show conclusively that these two sources are not stationary background objects. However, both Cycle 1 and 3 observations suffered from guide star failures and yielded science observations at only one telescope angle roll per epoch. The lack of contemporaneous two-roll sequences degrades the ability to reject speckle artifacts and thus to confirm that our closest solar-type neighbor is orbited by a giant planet heated by the central star. Director's Discretionary Time is necessary to take advantage of the next window of observability in Cycle 3 between in mid-late April 2025 to provide definitive confirmation of the presence of a gravitationally bound companion (as opposed to speckle artifacts), to increase the S/N of the point source detection for improved characterization, and to deliver a critical new data point for orbit determination that will facilitate rapid community follow-up observations.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The proposed Director's Discretionary Time (DDT) program follows the previous JWST program in choosing the MIRI F1550C FQPM mask for a number of reasons: (1) minimum impact of wavefront drifts; (2) sensitivity to planets heated by the primary star to 200-300 K; (3) minimum contamination by background objects with Rayleigh-Jeans photospheres; and (4) sensitivity to exozodical emission at the ~5-10 Zodi level at 1-2 au. The detailed observing sequence proposed here is identical to the previously executed programs: (1) a reference star is observed using a 9-point dither pattern at the start and end of the overall sequence to enable Reference Star Differential Imaging (RDI); (2) the primary star is observed at two telescope roll angles to provide angular diversity and reject residual speckles; and (3) the reference star is placed at the position of the binary companion star on the MIRI detector to assist in subtracting out its speckles at the position of the primary star, 7 arcsec away. An observing window of +/- 1 week around April 25, 2025, places the point source detection in a favorable position with respect to the boundaries of the FQPM and the line of residuals from the binary companion star. The exact date of the observation will be set in conjunction with the STScI planning team(s) to enable: (1) a good selection of guide stars; (2) selection of suitably bright Gaia offset stars (at F1000W, for target acquisition) which are not compromised by diffraction artifacts from the primary and binary companion star at the chosen V3 angles; and (3) minimizing the change in solar angle between the observations of reference and science stars. Once the date and initial start time of the observational sequence is set, the detailed timing of the observations will be adjusted to take account of the motion of the primary star (~10 mas/day due to proper motion and parallax as seen from JWST's L2 orbit) so that the star can be accurately placed behind the FQPM. These steps were all successfully demonstrated in the previous JWST programs.