---
id: 9256
proposal_type: "go"
cycle: "Cycle 4"
exclusive_access_period_months: 0
instrument_mode: "NIRSpec/BOTS"
pi_and_co_pis: "PI: Natalie Allen  Co-PIs: Nestor Espinoza"
prime_parallel_time_hours: "76.7/0.0"
program_title: "Using stellar contamination proxy TRAPPIST-1 b to search for an atmosphere on TRAPPIST-1 e"
type: "GO"
---
# 9256 - Using stellar contamination proxy TRAPPIST-1 b to search for an atmosphere on TRAPPIST-1 e
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=9256
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template                | Science Target |
| :---- | :-------------------------------- | :------------- |
| 589   | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) TRAPPIST-1 |
| 590   | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) TRAPPIST-1 |
| 591   | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) TRAPPIST-1 |
| 592   | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) TRAPPIST-1 |
| 610   | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) TRAPPIST-1 |
| 612   | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) TRAPPIST-1 |
| 613*  | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) TRAPPIST-1 |
| 615   | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) TRAPPIST-1 |
| 616   | NIRSpec Bright Object Time Series | (1) TRAPPIST-1 |

---

## ABSTRACT

The detection of the atmosphere of a terrestrial planet in the habitable zone of its host star is one of the main goals of the exoplanet community. In order to see the small signals from terrestrial atmospheres using transmission spectroscopy, small host stars are necessary, as the transit depth is directly dependent on the relative size of the planet to the star. However, early observations of terrestrial planets around small stars with JWST have shown that these small M dwarfs are dangerous. Heterogeneities on the stellar surface, common for M dwarfs, can contaminate the transmission spectrum and cause variations on a level much larger than any atmospheric signals. However, the TRAPPIST-1 system contains a possible solution to overcome this stellar contamination. Using the multiplicative effect of the stellar contamination signal to our advantage, we propose to observe close (but not overlapping) transits of TRAPPIST-1 b and TRAPPIST-1 e. The ratio of the resulting transmission spectrum will correct for the signal from the stellar contamination, and leave only the ratio of their atmospheric opacities. Assuming little to no atmospheric signal from TRAPPIST-1 b based on the thermal emission observations, we expect this ratio to result in the transmission spectrum of TRAPPIST-1 e normalized by the flat transit depth of TRAPPIST-1 b. Using this method, we can detect an Earthlike atmosphere on TRAPPIST-1 e using 15 close transits of TRAPPIST-1 b and e to 3 sigma significance.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We will use NIRSpec/PRISM for our observations. Based on the results from GTO 1331 (priv. communication), we use 5 groups per integration, which is 1.377 seconds per integration, and use the 512 subarray. TRAPPIST-1 itself can be used for target acquisition, which has already had success with previous TRAPPIST-1 observations. The proposed lengths of all 15 stares, both science and charged in hours, are given in Table 1 in the proposal, and total 128.8 hours: 52.1 in Cycle 3 and 76.7 in Cycle 4.

August 14, 2025
Based on Change Request 89455, and given Observation 7 was skipped (see Change Request 89422), we have changed Observation 7's window to October 29. This required an additional 7.5-hours of charged time to accomodate obtaining enough baseline before and after the transits of planet c-e-d (a train of transits separated by about 10 minutes each) and the transit of planet b (happening about 7 hours after the transit of e).