---
id: 9272
proposal_type: "calibration"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: ""
program_title: "CAL-NRS-406  MSA Optical Shorts Detection (OSD)"
type: ""
---
# 9272 - CAL-NRS-406  MSA Optical Shorts Detection (OSD)
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=9272
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :----------------------------------------- | :---------------------------------- | :---------------- |
| Exposures with current masks applied (control) | NIRSpec Internal Lamp | NONE |
| Application of test mask 1 | NIRSpec MSA Masking | NONE |
| Exposures with test mask 1 applied | NIRSpec Internal Lamp | NONE |
| Application of test mask 2 | NIRSpec MSA Masking | NONE |
| Exposures with test mask 2 applied | NIRSpec Internal Lamp | NONE |
| Application of test mask 3 | NIRSpec MSA Masking | NONE |
| Exposures with test mask 3 applied | NIRSpec Internal Lamp | NONE |
| Application of test mask 4 | NIRSpec MSA Masking | NONE |
| Exposures with test mask 4 applied | NIRSpec Internal Lamp | NONE |
| Restoration of original masks | NIRSpec MSA Masking | NONE |

## ABSTRACT

Contingency program for MSA OSD. When a new MSA short appears, if it is *not* detectable in telemetry, OSD diagnostic exposures should be executed in combination with test short masks in order to locate the short and mask the shutter row/column as necessary.
This calibration program may change in response to system developments and the final Cycle 4 science program.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

**OBJECTIVE:** The MSA control electronics (MCE) sporadically suffer electrical shorts, in which an unintended (and perhaps temporary) pathway bridges circuitry from a quadrant row or column (generically referred to as a line) to the substrate or another line. When a new short appears, the affected line should be identified and then masked, adding a full quadrant line to a dedicated mask in the MCE, effectively removing all the shutters in that line (171 or 365) from operations (this cannot be overruled by an MSA user pattern). If the short does not give rise to an elevation in quadrant current telemetry but is visible as thermal emission in the detector data, then the Optical Shorts Detection (OSD) should be executed: CAL-NRS-406. (If the short is seen in telemetry, ESD can be executed instead: CAL-NRS-405).

**METHOD:** OSD is a combination OP-driven and manual procedure in which detector data, together with knowledge of the configured MSA patterns, are analyzed to pinpoint the location of the short within the affected quadrant. Existing data generally narrows down the culprit line to a set of 3-6 possibilities (e.g. +/-1 shutter in both row/column axes). A set of test short masks are constructed, each including one of these possibilities. The onboard portion of OSD then systematically activates each test short mask in turn, for each executing a small number of dark exposures through special diagnostic MSA patterns (usually the two CHKBD3x3 patterns that ensure every line is probed in isolation). Once the exposure data is downlinked and available to the instrument team, analysis merely involves identifying the test mask for which neither CHKBD3x3 pattern causes the glow.