---
id: 9275
proposal_type: "calibration"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: ""
program_title: "CAL-NRS-409  NIRSpec Cycle 4 Fixed Slits Subarray Spectroscopic Flats - S-flats"
type: ""
---
# 9275 - CAL-NRS-409  NIRSpec Cycle 4 Fixed Slits Subarray Spectroscopic Flats - S-flats
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=9275
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                                                                | Observing Template         | Science Target |
| :------------------------------------------------------------------- | :------------------------- | :------------- |
| NRS-409 Cy 4: NRS in ternal spec flats subarra y PRISM               | NIRSpec Internal Lamp      | NONE           |
| NRS-409 Cy 4: NRS in ternal spec flats subarra y G140H F100LP FLAT1 | NIRSpec Internal Lamp      | NONE           |
| NRS-409 Cy 4: NRS in ternal spec flats subarra y G140H F070LP FLAT4 | NIRSpec Internal Lamp      | NONE           |
| NRS-409 Cy 4: NRS in ternal spec flats subarra y G235H               | NIRSpec Internal Lamp      | NONE           |
| NRS-409 Cy 4: NRS in ternal spec flats subarra y G395H               | NIRSpec Internal Lamp      | NONE           |
| NRS-409 Cy 4: NRS in ternal spec flats subarra y G140M               | NIRSpec Internal Lamp      | NONE           |
| NRS-409 Cy 4: NRS in ternal spec flats subarra y G235M, G395M       | NIRSpec Internal Lamp      | NONE           |

## ABSTRACT

This program will acquire the spectroscopic (lamp) flats for the FS mode using the ALLSLITS subarray.. Observations will be acquired for all of the NIRSpec disperser/lamp combinations. These observations will be used to develop S-flat reference files that are essential for minimizing flat field calibration noise for FS and/or BOTS observations that need improved signal-to-noise. In addition to the commissioning, cycle 1, cycle 2, and cycle 3 flats, these flats will further decrease the noise from the flat fielding process for science observation processing. The flats will also be assessed to evaluate any possible temporal evolution in the flat field. The S-flat is one part of the 3 component NIRSpec flat field in addition to the F-flat and the D-flat.
This calibration program may change in response to system developments and the final Cycle 4 science program.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This is the Cycle 4 version of the continuing FS subarray S-flat calibration program. The Cycle 4 version of this program continues FS subarray S-flat observations on a regularized annual cadence as established in Cycle 3. Accordinagly, this program is nearly identical with the Cycle 3 program with the exceptiion that several special "catch-up" observations that were obtained in Cycle 3 are not needed or included here.
Continued monitoring in Cycle 4 is required to extend the baseline for evaluating potential Sflat evolution in all regions. Additionally, examination of G140H/F070LP, G140M/F070LP, and PRISM/CLEAR NRS1 ratios of Cycle 1/Cycle2 Sflats show that these ratios, which are normally very close to unity for high count-level source data, show substantial noise (>>+/-4%) for these three cases in spectral regions where count-levels are low (especially, wavelengths < 0.9 microns). Accordingly, for specific cases (G140H/F070LP, G140M/F070LP, and PRISM) at wavelengths less than ~0.9 microns where detector sensitivity and flat lamp output are lower than in most other wavelength regions – regions for which combination of multiple epochs of observation will improve the cumulative statistics - additional observations will allow some combination of epochs while still providing temporal sampling.
All observations utilize internal lamp slew parallel exposures. The format of the program was revised in Cycle 3 to facilitate efficient implementation at uniform intervals in future cycles.
ALLSLITS exposures taken with all 9 disperser/ lamp configurations (filter set to OPAQUE).
subarray gain is always 2.
Uses internal lamp flat template therefore slew parallel only special requirement is required.
The flat field response is purely a property of the detector pixel, therefore data for other subarrays can be cut out of the ALLSLITS subarray.
SUB2048 and SUB512 are used with PRISM, medium-dispersion (M-mode), and high-dispersion (H-mode) gratings because S1600A1 will saturate too quickly in the ALLSLITS exposures. Integrations are selected to avoid saturation, should be adjusted if saturation or a signal deficiency is noted group all exposures in a particular visit with an individual grating to minimize GWA moves.
Similar programs were executed in Cycles 1 and 2 (Cycle 1 program: “Spectroscopic Subarray Flats” – PID 1486 and Cycle 2 program: “NIRSpec Subarray Spectroscopic Flats (CAL-NRS-204)” – PID 4458) and a program nearly identical to this cycle 4 program was executed in Cycle 3 (Cycle 3 program: “CAL-NRS-317: NIRSpec Cycle 3 Fixed Slits Subarray Spectroscopic Flats - S-flats” – PID 6647). The Cycle 1 program included special additional observations to examine the characteristics of saturation for cases with several spectral elements by using a lamp that was not standard for those particular gratings. Those supplemental observations do not contribute to the reference file development and have not been included in either the Cycle 3 or Cycle 4 programs. The epochs of observations in Cycles 1 and 2 were not constrained which led to uneven sampling intervals between epochs of observation that are potentially unfavorable to ideal temporal monitoring. Moderate timing constraints were included in the Cycle 3 program to establish approximately uniform sampling intervals between observations for each setup to the extent possible. These timing constraints are continued here in Cycle 4 and should be continued in future vbersions of this program. Due to an oversight, both the Cycle 1 and Cycle 2 programs did not obtain important G395H/M, G235H/M, and G140H/M SUB2048 observations needed to replace the impact of S1600A1 trace saturation in the baseline ALLSLITS exposures. Subsequent analysis has confirmed these observations are required. The Cycle 3 program included these additional observations in Obs 21, 22, 31, and 32 which are all continued here in Cycle 4. With one exception the balance of the observations (Obs 1, 4, and 5) in the Cycle 3 and 4 programs are identical to Obs 1, 4, and 5 of both the Cycle 1 and 2 programs and consist of all other core observations needed to produce S-flat reference files. The noted exception is one additional SUB512 exposure with FLAT4 has been added to Obs 1 of the Cycle 3 and 4 programs due to unexpected saturation discovered in analysis of the Cycle 1 and 2 SUB512 data. In Cycles 1 and 2 the G140H/F070LP and G140H/F100LP ALLSLITS exposures were obtained in the same observation (Obs 2 of those programs) and the G235H and G395H ALLSLITS exposures were also obtained in one observation (Obs 3 of those programs). Beginning in Cycle 3 and contnued here in Cycle 4, due to the addition of the SUB2048 exposures for these spectral elements, in order to facilitate slew parallel scheduling the exposures for each of these gratings are placed in separate observations (Obs 21, 22, 31, and 32). Medium-dispersion ALLSLITS and SUB2048 exposures will be obtained in Obs 4 and 5, as in Cycles 1, 2, and 3.
All exposures for an individual grating are in a single visit. Typically one spectral element is used per visit with the exceptioi of observation 5 which includes all exposures for both G235M and G395M. Total time investment for high S/N flats is approximately 3.5 hours. exposures:
Obs 1:
fixedslit allslits flat5 prism nrsrapid 7 10 10
brighobj sub512 flat4 prism nrsrapid 2 500 500
Obs 21:
fixedslit allslits flat1 g140h nrsrapid 12 10 10
brightobj sub2048 flat1 g140h nrsrapid 24 10 10
Obs 22:
fixedslit allslits flat4 g140h nrsrapid 12 10 10
brightobj sub2048 flat4 g140h nrsrapid 24 10 10
Obs 301 and 31:
fixedslit allslits flat2 g235h nrsrapid 12 10 10
brightobj sub2048 flat2 g235h nrsrapid 24 10 10
Obs 302 and 32:
fixedslit allslits flat3 g395h nrsrapid 8 10 10
brightobj sub2048 flat3 g395h nrsrapid 16 10 10
Obs 4:
fixedslit allslits flat1 g140m nrsrapid 8 10 10
fixedslit allslits flat4 g140m nrsrapid 4 10 10
brightobj sub2048 flat1 g140m nrsrapid 8 10 10
brightobj sub2048 flat4 g140m nrsrapid 8 10 10
Obs 5:
fixedslit allslits flat2 g235m nrsrapid 5 10 10
brightobj sub2048 flat2 g235m nrsrapid 10 10 10
fixedslit allslits flat3 g395m nrsrapid 4 10 10
brightobj sub2048 flat3 g395m nrsrapid 8 10 10
This calibration program may change in response to system developments and the final Cycle 4 science program.