---
id: 9284
proposal_type: "calibration"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: ""
program_title: "CAL-NIS-406  SOSS Background Measurements"
type: ""
---
# 9284 - CAL-NIS-406  SOSS Background Measurements
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=9284
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
**1. List of Labels, Observing Template, and Science Targets (OBSERVATIONS Table)**

| Folder Observation | Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :----------------- | :---- | :----------------------- | :------------- |
| 1                  |       | NIRISS External Calibration | (18) LAT00-LONG230 |
| 2                  |       | NIRISS External Calibration | (19) LAT00-LONG348 |
| 3                  |       | NIRISS External Calibration | (20) LAT00-LONG320 |
| 4                  |       | NIRISS External Calibration | (21) LAT30-LONG134 |
| 5                  |       | NIRISS External Calibration | (22) LAT30-LONG180 |
| 6                  |       | NIRISS External Calibration | (23) LAT30-LONG230 |
| 7                  |       | NIRISS External Calibration | (24) south-flat-pointing |

---

## ABSTRACT

Observations of the zodiacal light background are requested for 6 pointings, one of which is repeated to give some indication of whether there is a variability to the background from acquisition to acquisition depending on the grism position. Each field is fairly empty by the standards of the SOSS mode with no star bright enough to acquire. Observations are taken without an acquisition, and in full frame read-out with the GR700XD grism in the beam. No observations in the F277W filter are requested here. Analysis of these observations will allow some evaluation of how much the background may vary from pointing to pointing, and we expect to produce a number of zodiacal background template shapes from these data that can be used in the analysis of SOSS time series. This is a continuation of cycle 2 program 4479 and cycle 3 program 6658.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This calibration program may change in response to system developments and the final Cycle 4 science program.

Observations of the zodiacal light background are requested for 6 pointings, one of which is repeated to give some indication of whether there is a variability to the background from acquisition to acquisition depending on the grism position. Each field is fairly empty by the standards of the SOSS mode with no star bright enough to acquire. Observations are taken without an acquisition, and in full frame read-out with the GR700XD grism in the beam. No observations in the F277W filter are requested here. Analysis of these observations will allow some evaluation of how much the background may vary from pointing to pointing, and we expect to produce a number of zodiacal background template shapes from these data that can be used in the analysis of SOSS time series.

This calibration program may change in response to system developments and the final Cycle 4 science program.