---
id: 9287
proposal_type: "calibration"
cycle: ""
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: ""
program_title: "NIRISS WFSS Cy 4 Wavelength Calibration Verification, Monitoring, and Refinement"
type: ""
---
# 9287 - NIRISS WFSS Cy 4 Wavelength Calibration Verification, Monitoring, and Refinement
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=9287
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                       | Observing Template                     | Science Target    |
| :-------------------------- | :------------------------------------- | :---------------- |
| All W filters; 2 dithers; 3x3 | NIRISS Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy | (1) SMP-LMC-58    |

---

## ABSTRACT

This program aims to further investigate the behavior of the NIRISS wide field slitless (WFSS) mode's wavelength calibration. A JWST Cycle 1 NIRISS calibration program observed the planetary nebula SMP LMC 58 at nine distinct locations which allowed us to characterize the spatial dependence of the wavelength calibration. This new program aims to leverage that data as well as data observed during commissioning of the planetary nebula to accomplish three goals: 1) Determine if there is any time dependence of the wavelength calibration due to changes in NIRISS detector or grism optics, 2) Obtain additional wavelength calibration measurements at new locations closer to the edges of the detector to verify the current wavelength calibration, and 3) Use the new position data to determine if the spatial dependence of the wavelength calibration improves significantly with additional data points.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This program is an expansion of the initial NIRISS WFSS wavelength calibration observations in commissioning (PID 1090) and in Cycle 1 (PID 1510). In this program we will observe the planetary nebula, SMP LMC 58. This planetary nebula is in the continuous viewing zone and provides a spectrum with narrow emission lines for the wavelength calibration of the spectra. The nebula is very small, although not quite a point source for JWST, so the line measurements are accurate and not affected by the nebular morphology. We will observe the nebula in a 3 by 3 grid with a 70% overlap with both GR150C and GR150R crossed with the available NIRISS/WFSS wide-band filters (F090W, F115W, F150W, F200W). This is a -5% change of overlap compared to the Cycle 1 wavelength calibration program, although the center pointing location will remain the same as PID 1510. We will be obtaining 2 dither positions to protect against cosmic rays and bad pixels given the limited number of emission lines in the short NIRISS traces. A 70% overlap allows us to still obtain order 1 spectra for both grisms in all cross filters, although we will not obtain order 2 spectra for F200W. We are observing with GRISM=GR150C and GRISM=GR150R rather than GRISM=BOTH to remove the ~100 pixel offset introduced while using the WFSS APT template between filters.