---
id: 9296
proposal_type: "ddt"
cycle: 3
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 8.7
program_title: "A supernova at z=7.3"
type: ""
---
# 9296 - A supernova at z=7.3
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=9296
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label                                   | Observing Template | Science Target   |
| :-------------------------------------- | :----------------- | :--------------- |
| EARLY TIME SN                           | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) GRB250314A   |
| LATE_TIME_ONLY_IF HOST CONTAMIN AATED | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) GRB250314A   |

---

## ABSTRACT

We propose to obtain a snapshot detection and characterisation of a supernova associated with a gamma-ray burst at z=7.3. The exceptional sensitivity of NIRCAM across a decade in wavelength provides the capability to identify the unambiguous fingerprint of a typical GRB-supernova at the red end, where the spectrum will rise sharply between 2 and 4.5 microns, while also being sensitive to more exotic supernova properties that may arise from GRBs in the very early Universe (where the supernova ejecta may be re-energised by the action of a central engine). These observations can detect (or, perhaps equally interestingly, rule out) the presence of the most distant supernova observed to date. In turn, we can then compare the luminosity and colours of the supernova to those seen in more local GRBs to test for any changes in SN properties at high redshift. These observations will hone our ability to study supernovae at high redshift and test the feasibility of more in-depth follow-up (multi-epoch imaging, spectroscopy) of future examples discovered either in deep field surveys or (GRB or otherwise) triggered observations. We also request a late-time host subtraction template should it be necessary, but stress that we will only request these observations should it be apparent they are necessary from our initial epoch.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Our strategy is to obtain NIRCAM observations of GRB 250314A in the visibility window in May-July 2025. Observations in mid-late June will correspond to the rest-frame V-band (observed F444W) peak of supernova seen in GRBs (e.g. SN~1998bw).

For NIRCAM, we will use module B with an offset to put the source on one of the amplifiers; we will use the SHALLOW4 reads with six groups per integration and six dithers for a total exposure time of 1868 per filter (double in the case of F150W2 and F277W). These observations will provide 3-sigma depths of F090W=28.6, F115W=28.6, F150W2= 30.3, F200W=29.0, F277W=29.6, F356W=29.2, F410M=28.4, F444W=28.9.