---
id: 9327
proposal_type: "ddt"
cycle: 3
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 2.8
program_title: "Confirmation of a direct-collapse supermassive black hole"
type: ""
---
# 9327 - Confirmation of a direct-collapse supermassive black hole
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=9327
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
**1. List of Labels, Observing Template, and Science Targets**

| Folder Observation | Label | Observing Template    | Science Target     |
| :----------------- | :---- | :-------------------- | :----------------- |
| 1                  |       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) Infinity       |
| 2                  |       | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (2) Background     |

## ABSTRACT

The origin of supermassive black holes (SMBHs) is one of the most important open questions in astrophysics. The two leading theories are that they started out as remnants of individual Population III stars ("light seeds"), or formed through a direct runaway gravitational collapse of a massive gas cloud ("heavy seeds"). As both processes were thought to take place only at very high redshift (z~20), there was little hope to directly observe the formation of a SMBH, even with JWST. Against the odds, a candidate for a direct-collapse SMBH has now been identified in JWST images of the COSMOS field. It is in a galaxy at z=1.14 that consists of two massive, ringed nuclei. The SMBH is in between the nuclei, embedded in an extended distribution of Halpha+NII+SII emitting gas. The galaxy is a textbook example of a head-on collision of two disks, with the disk stars herded in collisional rings around the bulges. The ionized gas in between the nuclei was likely shocked and compressed at the collision site. The SMBH appears to have formed out of this dense, filamentary gas. We propose to test this by measuring the radial velocity of the ionized gas, using the NIRSpec IFU. If the SMBH formed out of this gas, the radial velocity of the SMBH and the gas should be the same. If it is a "wandering" black hole that is just passing through, the SMBH and gas velocities will be significantly different. Should the in-situ scenario be corroborated by the NIRSpec observations, then this constitutes an empirical demonstration that direct-collapse formation of SMBHs can happen in the right circumstances - something that has so far only been seen in simulations and through indirect observations.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

Two linked sets of exposures will be obtained: one on the science target (Observation 1) and one on an offset sky position (Observation 2). Each of the sets consists of 4 exposures in a standard 4-point dither pattern. Each of the 4 exposures has 8 groups.

No acquisition is needed, given the size of the target and the pointing accuracy of JWST.