---
id: 9356
proposal_type: "ddt"
cycle: 3
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 9.5
program_title: "HZTDE-1: The Highest-Redshift TDE Candidate, Revealing the Origins of Supermassive Black Holes"
type: ""
---
# 9356 - HZTDE-1: The Highest-Redshift TDE Candidate, Revealing the Origins of Supermassive Black Holes
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=9356
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label             | Observing Template              | Science Target |
| :---------------- | :------------------------------ | :------------- |
| TDE observation   | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (1) HZTDE-1    |

---

## ABSTRACT

The highest-redshift tidal disruption event (TDE) candidate has been discovered -- but to confirm it's nature and characterize its properties, JWST follow-up spectroscopy is urgently needed before it fades below detectability. HZTDE-1 is a candidate z~5 TDE, and we propose a PRISM spectroscopy program that will confirm its classification, measure its redshift, and lead to a supermassive black hole (SMBH) mass given 7.2 hours of science time. TDEs are uniquely sensitive to SMBHs in the mass range of 10^5-10^8 M_sun. At z~5, broad line AGN have difficulty in measuring the masses of these lower-mass SMBHs, both in selection effects and systematic errors in virial mass estimates. However, this is also the mass and redshift range at which SMBH seed and growth models begin to diverge. HZTDE-1 offers the first probe of a lower-mass SMBH, estimated at 5x10^5 M_sun, in the early Universe. These observations will pave the way for a new, independent study of high-redshift black holes through the observation of TDEs.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We request 7.2 hours (science time) of fixed slit PRISM spectroscopy in order to classify and characterize the spectrum of HZTDE-1. This is composed of 8 integrations per exposure with 100 groups per integration and 3 dithers, read out with NRSRAPID. We aim to reach at least siginal-to-noise 10 at H-alpha to confirm its spectroscopic redshift. Because of the uncertain brightness of the transient target, we will aquire the target via offset from a nearby star in the COSMOS field, which is in the Gaia catalog.