---
id: 9372
proposal_type: "ddt"
cycle: 3
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 8
program_title: "A Luminous, Red Transient at z = 3: An Extreme Test Bed for Supernova Evolution"
type: ""
---
# 9372 - A Luminous, Red Transient at z = 3: An Extreme Test Bed for Supernova Evolution
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=9372
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label              | Observing Template             | Science Target |
| :----------------- | :----------------------------- | :------------- |
| NIRSpec            | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (1) C3D SN     |
| NIRCam 1           | NIRCam Imaging                 | (1) C3D SN     |
| NIRCam 2           | NIRCam Imaging                 | (1) C3D SN     |
| NIRCam 3           | NIRCam Imaging                 | (1) C3D SN     |

## ABSTRACT

The first set of four z>2 supernovae (SNe) characterized spectroscopically by JWST have suggested that the detailed properties of high-z SNe might be distinct from those in the low-z universe. Our best lever arm for probing this evolution is to characterize the most extreme transients, as their very existence traces changes in global properties like metallicity and progenitor mass. However such objects, such as pair-instability SNe (PISNe), remain purely theoretical despite their value for understanding these fundamental changes. We report the discovery of an unusually luminous and red supernova (SN) candidate, C3D SN, at a spectroscopic redshift of z = 2.99, uncovered through image subtraction of COSMOS-3D, PRIMER, and COSMOS-Web JWST/NIRCam datasets. The redshift, rest-frame B-I color, and inferred absolute magnitude of M19.7 (rest-frame I band) are inconsistent with the typical color evolution of core-collapse or Type Ia supernovae in this phase range. Instead these observations point to a more extreme origin, best-matched by a PISN. Remarkably, the transient is spatially offset from its host galaxy, enabling the opportunity to obtain a high signal-to-noise spectrum of a rare, extreme stellar explosion in the early universe without significant host contamination. We request 8 hours of JWST NIRSpec/NIRCam time to characterize C3D SN, expanding the high-z sample required to test if and how SN properties evolve as a function of redshift.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

This program consists of two epochs to capture the evolution of a pair-instability supernova (PISN) candidate. The first epoch includes NIRSpec fixed-slit and 5-filter NIRCam observations, which we request in the current window ending May 27th to ensure the SN is bright enough for a spectrum. We do not include the second NIRcam epoch in the APT as it is during Cycle 4, but we have added a custom time allocation that includes this second epoch, which should be scheduled in the November-January window. The second epoch uses the same filter set and readout pattern, but with 6 groups/int and 2 integrations/exp.