---
id: 9381
proposal_type: "ddt"
cycle: 3
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 4.1
program_title: "Unveiling the Nature of a Bright, Long-Duration Transient Discovered in Four-Epoch JWST Observations Over Two Years"
type: ""
---
# 9381 - Unveiling the Nature of a Bright, Long-Duration Transient Discovered in Four-Epoch JWST Observations Over Two Years
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=9381
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template             | Science Target |
|-------|--------------------------------|----------------|
|       | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (1) C3D-BLT1   |

---

## ABSTRACT
We propose to perform deep NIRSpec/Prism spectroscopic observations of a remarkable, bright, and long-duration transient, C3D-BLT1, identified in the COSMOS field through four epochs of JWST observations spanning two years. C3D-BLT1 is among the brightest transient (~25 AB mag) discovered by JWST, hostless in all but the deepest PRIMER F277W image, and exhibits dramatic spectral energy distribution (SED) evolution from blue to red over a period of 470 days. Its unique color evolution and long-duration nature suggest a rare and energetic event, potentially consistent with a pair-instability supernova (PISN) at z~5, a superluminous supernova (SLSN) at z~4, or a tidal disruption event (TDE) in a low-mass galaxy at cosmic noon. If confirmed as a PISN or TDE, this program would provide the first strong evidence for the existence of massive stars (>140 M_sun) or massive seed black holes (~10^4 M_sun) in the early Universe. If it is a SLSN, this would represent the first detection of such an exotic explosion mechanism beyond cosmic noon. Even if none of these scenarios applies, this program would still reveal a new class of transients and/or shed light on SN dust formation mechanisms. Furthermore, this effort will serve as a pathfinder for studying high-redshift, long-duration transients with JWST. This program is time-critical, meets all the criteria for JWST DDT consideration, and offers high scientific return with a small request of just 4.1 hours.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION
We will perform NIRSpec/PRISM FSS observations using WATA acquisition, placing the target on the S200A1 slit. The observation is straightforward and will use the standard 5-nod dither pattern. We plan to use 8 groups and 3 integrations, yielding a total on-source exposure time of 8972s. Including all overheads, the total observation time is 4.1 hours.