---
id: 9431
proposal_type: "ddt"
cycle: 4
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 8.7
program_title: "First Images of our Young Jupiter Neighbor"
type: ""
---
# 9431 - First Images of our Young Jupiter Neighbor
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=9431
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label             | Observing Template           | Science Target |
| :---------------- | :--------------------------- | :------------- |
| Roll 1 F444W      | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (1) -eps-Eri   |
| Roll 2 F444W      | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (1) -eps-Eri   |
| Ref F444W         | NIRCam Coronagraphic Imaging | (2) -del-Eri   |

## ABSTRACT

Epsilon Eridani, the tenth closest star to our Solar System, is often described as a younger version of the Sun. Hosting a richly complex debris disk and a Jupiter-like planet, it has been the target of many hundreds of hours of telescope time. The Jovian companion, detected with the radial velocities (RV) technique, has, however, eluded a direct detection. For the first time, given the recent orbit and mass estimates obtained with RV data and the combination of Hipparcos, Gaia and HST/FGS astrometry data, JWST/NIRCam is expected to have the sensitivity needed to image it. Previous observations with NIRCam observed a marginal candidate with a relative astrometry and photometry consistent with the planet, however, its position coincided with a bright speckle which precluded a statically significant detection. We propose to follow-up this candidate to validate it as the Jupiter-like planet. The rationale for requesting DD time is based on predictions with a newly-published orbital model that shows that the planet will likely be undetectable for the next two years. The 4-5 micron photometry delivered by this program will constrain the planet's physical properties such as radius, effective temperature, metallicity, and the presence of water clouds. Given that a precise dynamical mass measurement is already available for Epsilon Eridani b, a photometric detection uniquely enables a test of substellar evolutionary models in the low-mass, low-temperature regime. We contend that the scientific significance of this potential discovery alone justifies a DDT observation: this would be the coldest and lowest mass planet, with a dynamical mass, ever imaged, a true Jupiter analog.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The proposed observations consist of a set of imaging sequences with NIRCam filter F444W (and simultaneous, dual-band F210M) of the system epsilon Eridani. The aim is to image a previously detected source near this star.