---
id: 9433
proposal_type: "ddt"
cycle: 4
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 5.4
program_title: "Black hole primacy - do supermassive black holes really predate galaxies?"
type: ""
---
# 9433 - Black hole primacy - do supermassive black holes really predate galaxies?
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=9433
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
|-------|--------------------|----------------|
| 1     | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy | (1) TheCliff   |

## ABSTRACT

Explaining the formation and rapid growth of supermassive black holes in the early universe is one of the most profound open questions in astrophysics. A faint AGN at z=7 recently observed with NIRSpec/IFS shows extremely low metallicity but large black-hole mass. This cannot be explained by any existing model of black hole growth, and may require the existence of massive, primordial black holes that were already in place before galaxies formed. This finding would have far-reaching implications, from cosmology to fundamental physics, but it currently rests on a single, faint source. We propose to test the hypothesis of primordial supermassive black holes by measuring the gas metallicity of 'The Cliff”, a recently discovered AGN at z=3.55 with nearly identical spectral shape and line ratios to the z=7 source, but 10x brighter. Using just 3 hours of high-resolution NIRSpec/IFS spectroscopy, we will accurately measure its metallicity, emission-line profiles, and spatial extent, enabling a definitive test of the primordial black hole scenario. This observation provides a unique, time-sensitive opportunity to independently confirm one of JWST's most surprising results, and potentially rewrite the story of how SMBHs formed.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

The observations aim to detect broad and narrow-line emission of Hbeta, [OIII]5007, and Halpha. The high-resolution grating improves the ability to identify and disentangle Balmer-line absorption superimposed to the broad lines. The compact nature of the target means no acquisition is required. 10 dithered exposures improve the PSF sampling.