---
id: 9438
proposal_type: "ddt"
cycle: 4
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 30
program_title: "Certum: Multiband Webb Images in the Inner Galaxy for the Roman Galactic Plane Survey"
type: ""
---
# 9438 - Certum: Multiband Webb Images in the Inner Galaxy for the Roman Galactic Plane Survey
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=9438
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :---- | :----------------- | :------------- |
| 1     | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) G028.320+01.243 |
| 2     | NIRCam Imaging     | (2) G033.007+01.150 |
| 3     | NIRCam Imaging     | (3) G040.954+02.473 |
| 4     | NIRCam Imaging     | (4) G054.093+01.748 |
| 5     | NIRCam Imaging     | (5) G007.470+00.050 |
| 6     | NIRCam Imaging     | (6) crowded 13 |
| 7     | NIRCam Imaging     | (7) crowded 120 |

## ABSTRACT

The Roman Galactic Plane Survey (RGPS) will observe ~700 square degrees of the inner Galaxy, unveiling much of the far side of the Milky Way's disk and measuring fluxes for tens of billions of stars. The success of the RGPS depends on understanding the connection between the photometry Roman measures and the Galaxy's stars, gas, and dust, in the extremely crowded and reddened environments typical of the inner galaxy. This is a major challenge: while we expect that the far side of the Galaxy will look broadly like the near side, it is (1) largely unobserved today at Roman's sensitivity, (2) heavily reddened by dust, and (3) very crowded. This proposal, Certum, will obtain Webb imaging of seven RGPS fields over a range of environments, with the much better spectral coverage, depth, and resolution made possible by Webb. We will use the Certum observations to optimize the RGPS design, quantify the ability of the RGPS to measure the properties of the Galaxy's stars and dust, and to determine the effect of crowding on Roman observations. Additionally, Certum will specifically target fields featuring gas-bearing regions on the far side of the Galaxy in order to map the structure of the Milky Way and to test the RGPS's mapping potential.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose observations of 7 inner galaxy fields in 14 filters with NIRCam (F070W, F090W, F115W, F140M, F150W, F182M, F210M, F277W, F300M, F335M, F360M, F410M, F444W, F480M). Each field is observed with 10 groups of the SHALLOW4 readout pattern, using a 4-point INTRAMODULEBOX dither pattern. The observations will be used to provide reference images and catalogs for planning the Roman Galactic Plane Survey, and to map the three-dimensional distribution of dust on the far side of the galaxy in the outer Scutum-Centaurus arm.