---
id: 9442
proposal_type: "ddt"
cycle: 4
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 9.2
program_title: "MIRI MRS Observations of the Third Interstellar Object"
type: ""
---
# 9442 - MIRI MRS Observations of the Third Interstellar Object
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=9442
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label          | Observing Template                | Science Target      |
| :------------- | :-------------------------------- | :------------------ |
| I3 Atlas visit1  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) I3 Atlas        |
| I3 Atlas visit2  | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) I3 Atlas        |
| I3 Atlas Bkg1    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) ISO_background  |
| I3 Atlas Bkg2    | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy | (2) ISO_background  |

---

## ABSTRACT

Interstellar Comet C/2025 N1 or I/3 Atlas was discovered on July 2nd, 2025, and is the third observed interstellar object (ISO), and the largest of its class seen. ISOs are thought to be remnants of planet formation, allowing us to directly measure the physical properties of individual planetesimals from systems other than our own. MIRI MRS is the only instrument currently in operation that can observe the entire 5-28 micron wavelength range at high spectral resolution, which is required to probe the silicate content of a distant star system. The proposed observations will provide a bridge between the study of debris disks and individual bodies in the solar system, and link observations of those disks to the primordial bodies that compose them. Current TOO observations that are part of program 5094 will observe the target using MIRI LRS, which is insufficient to measure Fe/Mg ratios capable of tracing thermal histories and also misses the silicate bands past 14 microns, which are necessary for deconvolving temperature, surface properties, and composition. Moreover, MRS is the only instrument capable of fully separating individual ro-vibrational emission lines, such as those of water ice at 6 microns, which is necessary to explain the nature of the activity seen on I3/Atlas as compared to solar system bodies. It is essential to characterize this interloping object due to its short observing window contained entirely within JWST Cycle 4.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We target the new interstellar object 3I/Atlas using MIRI MRS. We split our observations over two visits to the target due to its significant on-sky motion which precludes one lengthy observation. Our visits take 100 groups in FASTR1 mode in one exposure over four dithers. We obtain background images for both visits, using only two dithers. The observations are constrained to the month of December to ensure highest signal-to-noise on this target. We request 9.2 hours of JWST Director's Discretionary time to use MIRI MRS to characterize the key physical properties of I/3 Atlas and its key compositional constituents.