---
id: 9443
proposal_type: "ddt"
cycle: 4
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 3.8
program_title: "CIGMA (Crystals, Ice, and Gas Molecules under Accretion): How Bursts Transform the Circumstellar Disk WL17"
type: ""
---
# 9443 - CIGMA (Crystals, Ice, and Gas Molecules under Accretion): How Bursts Transform the Circumstellar Disk WL17
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=9443
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label      | Observing Template                     | Science Target      |
| :--------- | :------------------------------------- | :------------------ |
| MIRI       | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (1) WL-17           |
| NIRSPEC    | NIRSpec IFU Spectroscopy               | (3) WL-17 NIRSPec   |
| MIRI BKG   | MIRI Medium Resolution Spectroscopy    | (2) BKG WL17        |

## ABSTRACT

Understanding how burst accretion events reshape the dust, ice, and gas in protoplanetary disks requires time-sensitive observations that directly compare quiescent and burst phases with consistent instrumentation for a single burst event. WL 17, a Class I low-mass protostar in Ophiuchus, recently brightened by a factor of 3.4, offering an important chance to monitor a disk-dominated source before and during a burst with JWST's unprecedented sensitivity. Unlike EC53, WL17's minimal envelope and ALMA-resolved ring-gap structure allow clear isolation of disk-specific changes. Pre-burst spectra from IRTF/SpeX and JWST MIRI MRS reveal rich molecular emission and multiple ice features. Our new IGRINS spectrum confirms that WL 17 remains in its burst phase. We propose time-critical JWST NIRSpec IFU and MIRI MRS observations to track real-time changes in silicate crystallization, ice sublimation, and hot molecular chemistry. Combined with the unique pre-burst baseline, these data will provide a robust test of how burst accretion processes transform disk material, setting a benchmark for models of how dust, volatiles, and processed gas are delivered to planet-forming regions. This rare opportunity will close a key gap left since the Spitzer era and cannot be repeated once WL 17's burst fades.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We propose to observe WL 17, a disk-dominated protostar that has recently undergone an outburst by ~2 (~1.5) magnitudes at 3.4 micron (4.6 micron) By comparing with the pre-burst JWST MIRI MRS spectra, this proposal aims to investigate the ice, gas composition, and dust mineralogy of the disk and their variations. NIRSPEC and MIRI IFU observations will provide spatially resolved distributions of various species. The NIRSpec spectra will cover chemically important ice features, such as H2O at 3.0 micron, CO2 at 4.27 micron, and CO at 4.67 micron, along with the Br alpha line, which can be used to constrain the current mass accretion rate. In addition, NIRSpec will trace warm gas emission from the disk surface. The MIR spectra of MIRI over ~5-28 micron will capture absorption features by a bulk of icy complex organic molecules and thermal emissions from the disk surface. Moreover, MIRI will observe silicate dust features, including both amorphous and crystalline components, in absorption and emission. To trace real-time changes in silicate crystallization, ice sublimation, and burst-driven chemistry in this unique disk laboratory, we propose time-critical JWST observations with NIRSpec IFU and MIRI MRS. Given the extended H2 outflow-like feature detected in previous MIRI observation, we will adopt a 4-point dither pattern optimized for a point source in MIRI MRS, and a 6-point cycling dithering with a large size for NIRSpec IFU to ensure coverage of this extended feature.