---
id: 9447
proposal_type: "ddt"
cycle: 4
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 6.3
program_title: "GRB 250702B/D/E Burning Red: A GRB or TDE?"
type: ""
---
# 9447 - GRB 250702B/D/E Burning Red: A GRB or TDE?
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=9447
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label | Observing Template | Science Target |
| :---- | :----------------- | :------------- |
| 1     | NIRCam Imaging     | (1) GRB250702B |

## ABSTRACT

GRB 250702B/D/E is one of the longest "gamma-ray bursts" (GRBs) ever detected with a T90 of over 15,000s, earning it a designation in the 'ultralong' GRB subclass. The discovery of a fast-fading, very red (H-K = 2.5 mag) NIR counterpart localized to an edge-on galaxy strongly supports its classification as an extragalactic transient. The extraordinary duration of GRB 250702B/D/E, and the discovery of soft X-ray emission discovered ~24 hrs prior to the gamma-ray trigger, however, brings into question its designation as a true "gamma-ray burst." An alternative identity for the source is as a tidal-disruption event (TDE). The multi-wavelength properties, including the precursor X-ray emission, are consistent with a jetted tidal-disruption event, however the off-nuclear position of GRB 250702B/D/E would make this the first jetted TDE of its kind. Only 3 other off-nuclear TDEs have been discovered and are thought to be powered by massive black holes. TDEs involving intermediate-mass black holes (IMBH) are also expected to be found in off-nuclear locations. We propose to use JWST/NIRCam to precisely measure the SED and time evolution of GRB 250702B/D/E, further resolve the field around the candidate NIR counterpart, and identify the progenitor of this extraordinary event.

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We are proposing to precisely measure the SED and time evolution of GRB 250702B/D/E. We request one epoch of NIRCam imaging in each F150W/F277W, F150W/F356W, and F200W/F444W. The SW filter F150W is repeated so as to reach a high enough SNR. We request the B module, FULL array, SHALLOW4 readout pattern, with 8 groups per integrations, and 3 integrations per exposure. We request specific PAs so as to avoid diffraction spikes from nearby stars.