---
id: 9448
proposal_type: "ddt"
cycle: 4
exclusive_access_period_months: ""
instrument_mode: ""
pi_and_co_pis: ""
prime_parallel_time_hours: 9.7
program_title: "An accretion burst in a planetary mass objects: DDT observations of Cha1107-7626"
type: ""
---
# 9448 - An accretion burst in a planetary mass objects: DDT observations of Cha1107-7626
https://www.stsci.edu/jwst/science-execution/program-information?id=9448
## OBSERVATIONS TABLE
| Label             | Observing Template              | Science Target      |
| :---------------- | :------------------------------ | :------------------ |
| NIRSPEC_epoch1    | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (1) CHA1107-7626    |
| NIRSPEC_epoch2    | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (1) CHA1107-7626    |
| NIRSPEC_epoch3    | NIRSpec Fixed Slit Spectroscopy | (1) CHA1107-7626    |
| MIRI_epoch1       | MIRI Low Resolution Spectroscopy | (1) CHA1107-7626    |

---

## ABSTRACT

Recent published observations with VLT and JWST have established Cha1107-7626 as a prototype of an isolated planetary-mass object with ongoing accretion and a carbon-rich disk. Over the last months, several epochs of VLT/XSHOOTER spectra have been collected. The last epochs from June and July 2025 shows a dramatic increase in the width and strength of accretion-related lines, indicating an ongoing accretion burst - for the first time observed in an object with a mass in the planetary domain. In addition, there is a clear asymmetric double-peaked Halpha profile. This is a breakthrough discovery that needs verification and monitoring. Here we propose to obtain several epochs of infrared spectroscopy with JWST, to track the evolution of the accretion burst, to measure the extent of the mass accretion rate changes, and to evaluate the impact of the event on the disk.

---

## OBSERVING DESCRIPTION

We ask for three epochs of NIRSPEC data, and one epoch of MIRI spectroscopy, to track the evolution of an accretion burst detected in emission lines in the planetary-mass object Cha1107-7626.
With NIRSPEC, we plan to observe with 3 setups, PRISM to track the continuum and Halpha, plus two high-resolution grisms to track the accretion-related Paschen and Brackett lines. With MIRI, we ask for LRS data, to probe the silicate feature. The precise setup follows previous successful programs for this target or for targets with similar characteristics.
The program requires several time constraints. One, the current visibility window ends on August 31, which means the program needs to be completed at that point. Second, the MIRI visit should be grouped with the first NIRSPEC visit. And third, the NIRSPEC visits need to be at least 2 days apart from each other.
We note that so far the target has not shown signs of significant accretion-induced changes in the continuum compared to its quiescent state. Therefore, we expect that the continuum is similar to previous observations. However, our setup is robust against continuum changes up to a factor of 2-3.